Burzum (/ˈbɜːrzəm/; Norwegian: [ˈbʉrtsʉm]) is a musical project of Norwegian musician and writer Varg Vikernes. Vikernes began making music in 1988, but it was not until 1991 that he recorded his first demos as Burzum. The word ""burzum"" means ""darkness"" in the Black Speech, a fictional language crafted by Lord of the Rings writer J. R. R. Tolkien. The project became a part of the early Norwegian black metal scene and is one of the most influential acts in black metal. Vikernes recorded the first four Burzum albums between January 1992 and March 1993. However, the releases were spread out, with many months between the recording and the release of each album. In May 1994, Vikernes was sentenced to 21 years in prison for the murder of Mayhem guitarist Øystein 'Euronymous' Aarseth and the arson of three churches. While imprisoned, Vikernes recorded two dark ambient albums using only synthesizers, as he did not have access to drums, guitar or bass. Since his release from prison in 2009, he has recorded three further black metal albums and several ambient/electronic albums. Although Vikernes is known for his white nationalist political views, he does not use Burzum to promote those views, and his lyrics are non-political. Burzum has never performed live and Vikernes says he has no intention of doing so. However, in a video posted on Vikernes' official YouTube page he stated Burzum will be touring from June 2016 in a joint tour with his former band Mayhem called ""The Mythic Fantasy Tour"" with 60 dates planned. However this was regarded to be an April Fools' Day joke.
Darkthrone is a Norwegian heavy metal band. It formed in 1986 as a death metal band under the name Black Death. In 1991, the band embraced a black metal style influenced by Bathory and Celtic Frost and became one of the leading bands in the Norwegian black metal scene. Their first three black metal albums—A Blaze in the Northern Sky, Under a Funeral Moon and Transilvanian Hunger (sometimes dubbed the ""Unholy Trinity"") — are considered the peak of the band's career and to be among the most influential albums in the genre. For most of this time, Darkthrone has been a duo of Nocturno Culto and Fenriz, who have sought to remain outside the music mainstream. Since 2006, their work has strayed from the traditional black metal style and incorporated more elements of traditional heavy metal, speed metal and punk rock, being likened to Motörhead.
Claymore is a symphonic progressive black metal band originating from Ruse, Bulgaria that formed in 1999. Their style consists of a combination of melodic death and black metal with influences from other styles of metal like heavy, thrash, speed and classical music.
Twilight is an American black metal supergroup formed in 2005 and originally commissioned by the Swedish underground label Total Holocaust Records. Members of the band are all a part of well known projects within the black metal genre or otherwise including Xasthur, Leviathan, Krieg, Isis, Nachtmystium and Sonic Youth. Members of the group have included ""Azentrius"" (real name Blake Judd of Nachtmystium), ""Hildolf"" (real name Tim Lehi), ""Imperial"" (real name Neill Jameson), ""Malefic"" (real name Scott Conner) and ""Wrest"" (real name Jef Whitehead).
Von is an American black metal band from San Francisco, California. They are thought to be the first American black metal band, and have strongly influenced the second wave of black metal.
Blood of Kingu is a black metal band from Ukraine formed in 2005 by Roman Saenko, the main member of Drudkh, Dark Ages and Hate Forest. Lyrically, Blood of Kingu deals with Sumerian/Ancient Egyptian and Indo-European mythology and history. The vocals include death growls as well as Tibetan chants. On 7 December 2007, they released their first album, De occulta philosophia. It was re-released with alternate layout and packaging. Their second album, Sun in the House of the Scorpion, was recorded in the autumn of 2009 and released on 24 May 2010 by Candlelight Records.
Altar of Plagues is an Irish black metal band. After gaining attention in the metal community with a series of demos and EPs, the band released their first studio album, White Tomb, in April 2009 on Profound Lore Records. Following a year of gigging and some changes to the lineup, the group announced their signing with Candlelight Records in January 2010. They embarked on a four-week US Tour with blackened doom outfit Velnias ending in Chicago on 8 August 2010. They played the third annual Hopscotch Music Festival in Raleigh, North Carolina, USA which took place 6–8 September 2012. On 15 June 2013, the band announced via Facebook that they were splitting up and that their final live performance would be at the Unsound Festival in Poland in October. In January 2015 after having teased at it for weeks Altar of Plagues announced a few shows to take place in early 2015. Subsequently, in late 2014, the band announced it would embark on one last tour across mainland Europe with fellow Irish band Malthusian (with whom Altar of Plagues' drummer Johnny King also plays). James Kelly now releases music under the act name WIFE (musician)
Archgoat is a black metal group from Finland formed in 1989 by brothers Ritual Butcherer on guitar and Lord Angelslayer on bass and vocals. The members of Archgoat openly identify with the philosophy of Satanism and the Occult as expressed in their lyrical content, which also consists of anti-Christian themes.
Armagedda was a Swedish black metal band that was founded in 1999. As of 2004 the band has split-up.
Bestial Mockery is a Swedish black metal band formed in Uddevalla in 1995 by the quartet of Carl ""Master Motorsåg"" Bildt, Micke ""Doomanfanger"" Petersson, Jocke ""Christcrusher"" and Carl ""Warslaughter"". The band's stated aim at that time was to ""channel perverted lusts for Satanic bloody Metal"". Although they split up in 2008, Bestial Mockery released four full-length albums for Metal Blood Music, Osmose and Season of Mist, as well as a large number of stand-alone EPs and split releases with other underground metal acts. In a review of Slaying the Life in Decibel magazine, a similarity between the band and Nunslaughter was noted.As of November 11, 2011, the band is active again.
Devian was a Swedish metal band formed by Legion (former singer for Marduk) and Emil in 2006. Originally called Rebel Angels, then Elizium, and finally went to Devian after they found Elizium had been used too many times, and the new name sounded more mysterious and sinister.They released two albums, Ninewinged Serpent in 2007, and God To The Illfated in 2008.Legion left the band in 2010 due to his job as a tattoo artist. After the other members tried and failed to keep Devian alive, they agreed to disband it.
Devilish Impressions is a Polish avant-garde black metal band. Considered as one of Poland’s leading and most innovative modern black / death metal acts Devilish Impressions officially started in 2000 as a three-piece, with founding singer / guitarist Quazarre the only remaining original member. Squeezing a unique dimension of brutality and catchiness into their music the band keeps pushing boundaries further out with each consecutive release.
Diaboli (formerly known as Sigillum Diaboli) is a Finnish black metal band, initially formed in 1992 as a five-piece. Following band member departures and the suicide of vocalist Hrim Grimn'r in 2001, Diaboli continues as a one-man project. To date the band has released five full-length albums for the labels Unisound, Full Moon Productions and Northern Heritage.
Gaahlskagg is a Norwegian black metal band from Sunnfjord, Norway, founded in 1998 by Gaahl (former frontman of Gorgoroth and God Seed) and Skagg. Gaahl and Skagg were also members of the band Sigfader at the time. They first released the Split CD: Erotic Funeral Party I together with Stormfront in 1999. Then in 2000 they released their first full-length: Erotic Funeral, which was recorded in Grieghallen studios during 1999. Currently Gaahlskagg are working on their second full-length album: Av Norrønt Blod which is to be released in the near future. For this release Hoest (of Taake) will do some guest vocals. The planned re-release of their debut Erotic Funeral as a set of three 7"" LP's (containing the album split into Erotic Funeral party I - III) has been denied by their label.No Colours Records instead re-released the album as 12"" LP limited in blue (100 pcs.) and black vinyl.
God Seed was a Norwegian black metal band based in Bergen, Norway. Former Gorgoroth members Gaahl and King ov Hell adopted the name in March 2009 following the ending of the Gorgoroth name dispute. After performing a few gigs as God Seed, vocalist Gaahl left the band in July 2009 and it was put on hold. King finished the music for God Seed's first album, with vocalist Shagrath, and released it under the name Ov Hell. Gaahl re-joined God Seed in 2012. In January that year they released the live album Live at Wacken, and in October they released their first studio album, I Begin.
Gone Postal is a four-piece Icelandic death metal band from Kópavogur, Iceland, founded in 2007 by Haukur Hannes and Nökkvi G. Gylfason.
Impiety is a Singaporean black metal band, formed in early 1990 by Shyaithan (vocals/guitar/bass) and drummer Necro-Angelfornicator. They are notable for being one of the first extreme metal bands to emerge from Singapore, including releasing records on notable Western record labels.
Obscurity is a German melodic death/black metal band with strong viking metal influences hailing from Velbert, a city in the Bergisches Land in North Rhine-Westphalia. They are one of the early German death/black/viking and pagan metal bands.
Pantheon I is an extreme metal band from Oslo, Norway, and sharing some current and past members with 1349. They have the particularity to include a Cello artist in their line-up, and are often praised for being unafraid to experiment with their sound, while still keeping the musical ethos of black metal.
Profanatica is a black metal band from New York City. They are among the American black metal bands to have emerged early during the second wave of black metal, and under the direction of Paul Ledney they have placed profound emphasis on blasphemous themes.
Pulling Teeth was an American hardcore punk band from Baltimore, Maryland. Formed in 2005, the band released several recordings (as themselves or under aliases), and toured many times throughout North America, Europe and Japan before settling down and becoming a studio band. They announced their break-up on their official website in December 2011 and played their final show in Baltimore on January 21, 2012.
Thronar was a viking metal/black metal band from the Netherlands. The band released a discography consisting of three demos, one split album, and two full-length albums.
Wodensthrone were a black metal band from Sunderland in England. Since forming in 2005, the band has released two full length studio albums and two split albums.
Strid is a Norwegian black metal band that was originally known as ""Malfeitor"" from 1991 to 1992. After releasing two demos - ""Malfeitor"" (in 1991) and ""Pandemonium"" (in 1992), they changed their name to ""Battle"" and there were some line up changes at the time. In the year of 1992 the band released the ""End of Life"" demo. The demo contains only one song which is around 11 minutes. The line up at the time of recording the demo was: Storm - on bass and vocals, Lars Fredrik Bergstrøm - on guitars and Jardar - on drums. The guitars were written by Lars Fredrik Bergstrøm (1974 - 2014). In 1993 the band changed the name to ""Strid"" which means ""Battle"" in Norwegian. That same year, Strid re-released their ""End of Life"" demo under their new name, through the German label ""Malicious Records"". After releasing the ""End of life"" demo, Lars Fredrik Bergstrøm left the band and was replaced by Ravn Harjar. Through the years between 1993 and 1995, the band writes and records the self-titled EP which was released through Malicious Records and contains only two songs - ""Det hviskes blant sorte vinder"" which means ""It Is Whispered Amid the Black Winds"" in Norwegian and ""Nattevandring"" which means ""Nightwandering"" in Norwegian. The music style and sound of this demo is more ambient/atmospheric black metal oriented. Mainly because of this release, the band is commonly recognised as the creators of depressive black metal along with some other bands from the second wave of black metal music. At this time the band line up contains: Ravn Harjar - on guitars, Storm - on bass and vocals and Jardar - on drums. After the releasing of the self-titled EP, there was no any official releases by the band. There are also bootleg releases that came out through the years like the CD from 2005 by Ars Mysteriorum and LP, each featuring both ""End of Life"" and the self - titled EP tracks. In the year of 2001 the original former member of ""Malfeitor/Battle/Strid"", bass player and vocalist - Storm committed suicide. In the year of 2007, the Greek label Kyrck Productions & Armour re-released all the previous material released by the band from the past which contains all ""Malfeitor/Battle/Strid"" material. Somewhere between 2009 and 2010 there was a reunion of the band with old members including Vicotnik (Dødheimsgard, ex-Aphrodisiac, ex-Ved Buens Ende, ex-Manes, ex-Code, ex-Naer Mataron, ex-Endwarfment). Another member that was part of the reunion was Lars Fredrik Bergstrøm - the main composer of the ""End of Life"" track. In 2014 Lars Fredrik Bergstrøm died. At this time the band line up contains Ravn Harjar - on guitars and vocals, Vicotnik - on bass and Sigmund (ex-Inflabitan, ex-Dødheimsgard) - on guitars. In January 2015, Ravn Harjar wrote a statement on the official Strid Facebook page that in the autumn of the year 2015 the band will start recording their first full-length album which will be titled ""Endetid"". That means ""End of times"" in Norwegian. . Strid is commonly recognized as a major pioneering act within the depressive black metal scene. Strid, alongside the Burzum's albums Hvis lyset tar oss and Filosofem, influenced musically the Swedish band Shining, who writes music almost exclusively about depression and suicide.
Trelldom is a Norwegian black metal band, formed in 1992.
Carpe Tenebrum (incorrectly, Seize the Darkness in Latin) was a black metal solo project of the former Dimmu Borgir and Covenant guitarist Jamie Stinson, better known as Astennu. Stian Arnesen (Nagash) was also involved with the project. Very little has been heard of the project since the release of the third album, Dreaded Chaotic Reign, in 2002.
Demoniac were a heavy metal band from New Zealand formed in Wellington in 1993 by singer and bass player Lindsay Dawson, guitarist Sam Totman and Drummer Steve Francis. They later moved to London, UK. Three of the members went on to form DragonForce. Their rather unusual musical style has often been labeled as ""blackened power metal"".
Endstille is a black metal band from Germany. It was founded in 2000 by L. Wachtfels (guitar), Mayhemic Destructor (drums), Iblis (vocals) and Cruor (bass) in Kiel. L. Wachtfels and Mayhemic Destructor had previously played in the band Tauthr, while Iblis and Cruor came from the band Octoria. They describe their music as ""ugliest aggressive black metal with the fire-speed of an MG42 and the power of heavy ship-artillery"". The lyrics refer, to a large extent, to personal experiences and opinions of the band members. In its self-manifestation, the group refers to well-known German weapons from the time of World War II. This, in addition to the band's lyrics, is sometimes seen an indication of a right-wing extremist affinity within the band. Endstille clearly dissociates itself from such labels, explains to have no sympathies for right-wing ideas and says black metal ""is in its principle unpolitical"". In spring 2006, Endstille embarked on a highly successful European tour headlined by Dark Funeral and Naglfar, and supported by Finnish death metal band Amoral. In 2009, Vocalist Zingultus (Nagelfar, Graupel) replaced Iblis.
Manes is a band from Trondheim, Norway, formed in 1993. They started out as a two-piece band composed of Sargatanas and Cernunnus (or Cern). They have been signed to Candlelight Records, Hammerheart Records and the Italian experimental label Code666. The band's earlier works, up to and including Under Ein Blodraud Maane, were somewhat atypical Norwegian black metal and were highly lauded by fans of the genre. However, as of Vilosophe the band completely changed its sound to a hybrid of jazz, trip hop, electronica and metal with clean sung vocals and many progressive overtones. In spite of being highly acclaimed by critics this subsequent change of direction alienated most of their original fan base. In 2004 they played at the Inferno Metal Festival. In 2011 Manes released an official statement on their web site that they were calling it quits, although they would still release their final album, Be All End All, as well as an LP re-release of the debut Under Ein Blodraud Maane. In 2013, Manes announced their return on the official Facebook page and that the album Be All End All is still going to be released.
Bloodthorn is a Norwegian death metal band from Trondheim. Founded in 1992, they have gone through a number of musical developments. For example, their album Under The Reign Of Terror (2001) saw the band abandoning the female vocals (by Christine Hjertaas) and keyboards (by Geir Mikael Reijners) that had been so prominent on the first two albums and going back to their roots of raw, extreme metal. In 2006, Bloodthorn released their fourth album, Genocide. Following the release of Genocide, Bloodthorn played at several festivals, including Inferno and Wacken Open Air 2006 as well as Hole in the Sky 2007, and did a European and Scandinavian tour, with Carpathian Forest and Vader respectively. Bloodthorn is now working on their fifth album for a 2009 release.
Horna (formerly known as Shadowed) is a Finnish black metal band that formed in 1993. The band has appeared on over thirty releases including splits, demos, EPs and albums since 1995, which have been released through numerous record labels.
Iskra is a Canadian blackened crust band founded in Victoria, British Columbia in 2002. Their name means ""spark"" in Slovakian (iskra), Czech (iskra), Croatian (iskra), Polish (iskra), Serbian (искра/iskra), Russian (искра), and Bulgarian (искра). Iskra performs and contributes to the anarchist underground musical tradition, which emerged via anarcho-punk in the late 1970s and 1980s with bands like Crass, Amebix, Antisect, and Conflict. By blending elements of crust punk and black metal, Iskra say they have created their own subgenre: ""blackened crust"". Iskra includes former members of the crust band Black Kronstadt, who in the 1990s also described their music as ""blackened crust"", thus coining the phrase. Lyrically, Iskra's material generally follows in the anarchist punk tradition, with topics including criticism of government, war, economics, social issues such as homophobia, sexism, racism, and the struggles of indigenous peoples. The effects of political organization (both right and left wing) is also a common theme. Some songs discuss the global effects of capitalist institutions such as the World Trade Organization, World Bank, the Central American Free Trade Agreement, the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Independent Task Force on North America.
Koldbrann (Gangrene) is a Norwegian black metal band founded in 2001. Musically Koldbrann, like countrymen 1349, play very orthodox black metal in the classic Norwegian mould and have also received favorable comparisons to early Gorgoroth, Mayhem and Darkthrone. Much of the praise directed at the band has therefore been centered on their songwriting and excellent reproduction of the old sound of the Norwegian scene. Koldbrann have been very vocal about their distaste for drum triggers, featuring anti-trigger notifications on both of their full-length albums.
Master's Hammer are a black metal band from the Czech Republic. The band has remained active with several lineup changes between 1987 to 1995, with a reunion from 2009 to the present. It is considered one of the most representative groups of its kind in the country, in interpreting their songs entirely in Czech language. In addition, it is one of the precursors to incorporate symphonic metal elements. To a lesser extent, he has experimented with electronic sounds or avant-garde metal.
Satanic Warmaster is a one-man black metal band from Lappeenranta in southern Finland. Musician ""Werwolf"" (real name Lauri Penttilä) began recording under this name in 1998. Satanic Warmaster has sold tens of thousands of albums worldwide without the support of any major distribution companies or record labels. The band has toured around the world in countries such as Finland, Germany, Russia, Mexico, Japan and Italy. In November 2014, Satanic Warmaster's album ""Fimbulwinter"" reached the Finnish official chart on place #14  and the Rumba specialized stores' chart on place #2.
Thirdmoon are a Melodic death metal band from Austria.
Tristwood are an Industrial black metal band from Innsbruck, Tyrol in Austria. The band was originally founded in 1996 by Deimon and Neru who were the first two for forming under the name December. Their early MCD demo, Torment that was recorded in January 1997 managed to get great sales under their original genre of black metal however after recording they disbanded for several years until 2001 when Neru and Jegger decided to reform the band under the name Tristwood. Deimon came back to the band and together in 2003 they began recording the MCD entitled Fragments Of The Mechanical Unbecoming. The MCD contained far more technical advancements using additional programming and synthesizers causing the band's output to be categorised under the Industrial side of music. In December 2003 the band went to work on their first full-length album Amygdala. Straight after the release a follow up album was made, Fragments… which saw the addition of a DVD and was classified as a limited box set. During that same year, an addition of vocals, Axumis was recruited. After the two releases the band then in 2005 re-produced previous MCD's on an EP compilation called Svarta Daudi which was recorded in only 10 hours. 2005 also saw the recording of the album The Delphic Doctrine in September. Some of their recordings were sent to the record company, Sound Riot Records who were very impressed with their work and offered a contract to the band. The Delphic Doctrine which was released in March 2006 has received more attention than any of their other releases thanks to Sound Riot Records and their pushing for Tristwood to do more and more tours. On the 30th of May 2006 the band acquired a new bassist, Yak. In 2008 they started to record their new record Dystopia et Disturbia, which will be released in 2010.
Thou Shalt Suffer were a band that was part of the early Norwegian black metal scene. It formed in 1990 at Akkerhaugen, Norway, under the name ""Dark Device"". Its style was mainly death metal, though it included some black metal traits, alongside Ihsahn's trademark keyboard melodies. The band split up in late 1991 when its members formed Emperor and Ildjarn. In 2000, Ihsahn used the name Thou Shalt Suffer for his solo project. That year he released Somnium, an album of ambient songs influenced by medieval music.
Order of Ennead is an American self-described 'philosophical virtuoso death metal' band that was formed in Tampa, Florida. It includes two members of the death metal band Deicide, and the student of a former guitarist of the band. Order of Ennead have released two albums to date.
Urgehal is a black metal band from Norway. It was formed in Hønefoss in 1992 by lead guitarist/vocalist Trond Bråthen ('Trondr Nefas') and rhythm guitarist 'Enzifer'. To date, they have released seven full-length albums, four EPs and two demos. Their style and sound is strongly influenced by the Norwegian black metal scene of the early 1990s, and Enzifer has called Norwegian band Darkthrone their biggest inspiration. Other influences include ""old-school Heavy, Thrash, Speed, Death and Black Metal [...] and the old South American extreme metal scene"". Onstage, Urgehal wear traditional black metal attire, such as spiked wristbands, inverted crosses and corpse paint. Enzifer is also known for wearing a face mask with spikes protruding from it, which he says is used ""to mirror my inner darkness"". Urgehal define themselves as a ""Satanic"" band, explaining that they ""use Satan as a biblical and metaphorical expression of the inner evil of Man"". They explained their name as ""an expression in old Norse mythology"", describing it as ""an endless deep and dark forest where all the evil dwells"".
In Lingua Mortua is a Norwegian band formed by Lars Fredrik Frøislie in 1999 at Hønefoss, Norway. The music can be described as a mixture of 1970s progressive rock and black metal, and vintage instruments like the Mellotron, Chamberlin, Minimoog, Clavinet and Hammond organ are used frequently, as well as saxophone, bass clarinet, steel guitar, Ludwig drums and Rickenbacker bass. The first album ""Bellowing Sea - Racked by Tempest"" was written in 1999–2000, and released in 2007 on Termo Records. The second album ""Salon des Refusés"" was written between 2001 and 2005, and was released in 2010. The band features members from Shining (SE), Shining (NO), White Willow, Wobbler, Ásmegin, Xploding Plastix, Kvist, Urgehal and Keep of Kalessin. Jørgen Munkeby from Shining (NO) was influenced by the Salon des refusés session, quoting: “Lars’ refreshing blend of an impressive intellectual display and direct raw power has been a big inspiration for me. Lars is a true pioneer. He was the first person to invite me to play sax in a black metal setting, and in so doing, contributed strongly to SHINING’s later development of the Blackjazz genre.”
Teitanblood is a Spanish extreme metal band formed in 2003. Based in Madrid, the band currently consists of NSK (vocals, guitar, bass) and J (drums). The band released its debut album, Seven Chalices in 2009. Its follow-up, Death, was released 13 May 2014 via The Ajna Offensive and Norma Evangelium Diaboli record labels. The latter record was included on Decibel magazine’s list of Top 40 Albums Of 2014 as number 26. Teitanblood's music is generally labeled as death metal and black metal. The band's debut was described by BrooklynVegan as ""the most discordant, destructive, and ultimately unfucwitable blackened death in a long time"" whereas their follow-up album was labeled by Pitchfork as ""a weaponized hybrid of the two genres"". The band's music also features influences from bands such as Repulsion, Necrovation and early Incanation, as well as Chris Reifert's death-doom work and thrash metal genre.
Tulus is a Norwegian black metal band, formed in 1991 in Oslo.
Arvinger is a Viking metal band from Oklungen, Norway. Arvinger has worked with a number of session musicians since the band was founded in 2001. Initially the band released a home studio record consisting of six songs at MP3.com, and received significant positive feedback from fans. They recorded three additional songs, and published their debut album Helgards Fall in 2003.
Audrey Sylvain  is a French singer and dancer, originally from Avignon. Her first band was Amesoeurs. She also sang on Alcest's debut album. She is now a full-time member in Peste Noire.
Young and in the Way is an extreme metal band from Charlotte, North Carolina, formed in 2009. Their music is described as cold, hard and loud with ties to hardcore punk and black metal. They are currently signed to Deathwish Inc.
Heathen Beast is a black metal atheistic trio from Mumbai, India consisting of Carvaka on vocals and guitars, Samkhya on bass and Mimamsa on drums. Each member has a different set of beliefs and the band works under pseudonyms to hide their true identities. Their debut EP Ayodhya Burns was released in 2010 as a CD release limited to 200 hand-numbered copies and as a free download and received generally favorable reviews. In May 2012, they released their second EP, entitled The Drowning of the Elephant God; the EP was only released as a free download. It was well received by the fans and it got high critical acclaim. In May 2015, they released their third EP, entitled ""The Carnage of Godhra"". This was released as a free download. Again on July 2015, they released 'Trident', a CD which had compiled all the songs from the three EPs. In April 2016, they released their fourth EP, entitled 'The Rise of the Saffron Empire'. This EP was released via Transcending Obscurity and it was available in both Digital and Physical format, the digital format for free download as usual.
Azaghal is an orthodox black metal band from Finland, currently signed to Moribund Records. They were established in 1995.
Draconian is a metal band from Säffle, Sweden formed in 1994.
Mayhem is a Norwegian black metal band formed in 1984 in Oslo, regarded as one of the pioneers of the Norwegian black metal scene. Mayhem's career has been highly controversial, primarily due to their violent stage performances, the 1991 suicide of vocalist Per Yngve Ohlin (""Dead"") and the 1993 murder of guitarist Øystein Aarseth (""Euronymous"") by former member Varg Vikernes (""Count Grishnackh""), of Burzum. The group released a demo and an EP that were highly influential, and amassed a loyal following through sporadic and notorious live performances, attracting further attention through their ties to the string of Norwegian church burnings and the prominent incidents of violence surrounding them. They disbanded after Aarseth's murder, shortly before the release of their debut album, De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas, regarded as a classic of the black metal genre. Surviving former members Jan Axel Blomberg (""Hellhammer""), Jørn Stubberud (""Necrobutcher"") and Sven Erik Kristiansen (""Maniac"") reformed two years later with Rune Eriksen (""Blasphemer"") replacing Aarseth. Attila Csihar and (Morten Iversen) Teloch have since replaced Kristiansen and Eriksen, respectively. The band's music strongly influenced the black metal genre and was instrumental in moving the global black metal scene away from the prevailing trend for speed metal. Their post-Aarseth material is characterised by increased experimentation. The 2007 album, Ordo Ad Chao, received the Spellemannprisen award for best metal Album.
N.I.L. (""Nihilism Is Liberation"") is an American ambient black/doom metal band formed in 2004 by N. Imperial (a pseudonym of Neill Jameson). Initially, N. Imperial conceived of N.I.L. as a one-off solo project after his departure from black metal outfit Krieg. When the band consolidated into a duo, with the arrival of J. Marcheski in 2006, the project came to fruition with a self-titled release in 2007. N.I.L. does not appear in corpse paint,and their lyrics focus on solitude and nihilism. Musically, too, they divert from typical features of black metal (such as fast riffs and blast beats), but are instead characterized by bleak and slow, down-tempo, minimalist drones as well as acoustic passages more common in funeral doom.
The Axis of Perdition was a British industrial black metal band from Middlesbrough. They were signed to Code666 Records. The band rose from the ashes of Minethorn and consisted of Tetsuo Unit BRJ (a.k.a. Brooke Johnson, vocals, guitars, bass and programming) and Test Subject MGB (a.k.a. Michael Blenkarn, guitars, keyboards and programming).
Troll is a Norwegian symphonic black metal band.
Venom are an English heavy metal band formed in 1979 in Newcastle upon Tyne. Coming to prominence towards the end of the new wave of British heavy metal, Venom's first two albums—Welcome to Hell (1981) and Black Metal (1982)—are considered a major influence on thrash metal and extreme metal in general. Venom's second album proved influential enough that its title was used as the name of an extreme metal subgenre: black metal.
(This article is about the Italian extreme metal band. For the Slovenian progressive rock band, see Buldožer.) Bulldozer is an extreme metal band from Milan, Italy, that was active from 1980 until 1990. They have reunited as of 2008.
Grotesque was a Swedish death metal/black metal band formed in Gothenburg, Sweden in September 1988 from the remains of Conquest by Wåhlin (Necrolord) and Nordgren (Virgintaker) with the addition of Lindberg (Goatspell). The band was, however, short-lived and recorded a few demos and an EP. The band's original drummer Shamaatae formed the black metal band Arckanum in 1993. After the demise of Grotesque Lindberg and Svensson started At the Gates, while Necrolord created his own band Liers in Wait and focused more on creating artwork for several bands including Dissection and Emperor. In 1996, three members, Goatspell, Necrolord, and Offensor got back together and recorded two songs for the release of a compilation album, which was later re-released as a split album with At the Gates EP Gardens of Grief. Grotesque briefly reformed in 2007 for a single invite-only concert on January 26 in Stockholm, to celebrate the publication of Daniel Ekeroth's book Swedish Death Metal. Nirvana 2002 and Interment also reunited for the concert.
Merciless is a Swedish extreme metal band. The band was formed during the summer of 1986 in Strängnäs, Sweden by Erik Wallin (guitar), Fredrik Karlén (bass guitar) and Stefan Carlsson (drums). They were inspired by the early fast-playing bands such as Kreator, Sodom, Destruction and Bathory. First they did some local gigs as ""Obsessed"" and ""Black Mass"" but changed their name to Merciless in early 1987. A demo was recorded titled Behind the Black Door, which led to the replacement of Kåle by Rogga in early 1988. With this line-up they recorded a second demo Realm of the Dark in June 1988. This demo drew the attention of Deathlike Silence Productions - the label of Euronymous. That label released their debut album The Awakening in March 1990. Their second album The Treasures Within was recorded in June and July 1991 but it was not released until a year later due to the mismanagement of their new label Active Records. This delay cause the departure of drummer Stipen who was replaced by Peter Stjärnvind in February 1992. In September 1993, after Scandinavian tour, they recorded their third album with Dan Swanö at the Unisound studios and was released by No Fashion Records. In 1994, the band broke up because of disillusionment with record labels, but got back together in 1995 to record the song ""Crionics"" for the Slayer tribute album. In 1999, their debut album was re-issued by Osmose Productions, which eventually led to the reinstallment of the band. In May 2002, they entered the studio to record the successor to their 1994 album, simply named Merciless.
Parabellum were a Colombian extreme metal band from Medellín active in the 1980s. The band was described by Terrorizer magazine as one of the world's first black metal bands, as well as the first extreme metal band from Colombia and one of the very first from all South America. According to writer Emilio Cuesta, Øystein ""Euronymous"" Aarseth—a musician associated with the early Norwegian black metal scene—has said Parabellum and Medellín's Reencarnación were both influential to his own band Mayhem. Parabellum were formed in Medellín, Antioquia, in early 1983 by drummer Cipriano Álvarez and guitarist Carlos Mario Pérez. It took the band until 1987 to release their debut single, the two track Sacrilegio, limited to 500 copies. This was followed up with a second EP, Mutación por radiación, in 1988, limited to 600 copies. Sacrilegio was reissued in 1992, again limited to 500 copies, and a bootlegged version surfaced with an added third track (""Guerra, Monopolio, Sexo""). Adam Ganderson of Terrorizer describes their music as ""somewhere between hardcore and bizarrely backwards speed metal riffing ... one of those inimitable sounds that can only be generated by accident. Seriously, this is some of the weirdest, most intense music ever to blast from the gutters."" The band also makes a brief appearance in Víctor Gaviria's film Rodrigo D: No Future. Blasfemia Records released the Tempus Mortis compilation in 2005, which consists of the band's two EPs, six previously unreleased rehearsal tracks from 1984–1985, and a video track from the 1985 La Batalla de la Bandas festival. According to Zero Tolerance magazine, ""the sound that Parabellum created was one of unprecedented nihilism, evil and extremity. [...] They were pioneers and sonic adventurers operating in a world of violence, squalor and geographical isolation.""
Clandestine Blaze is a one-man black metal band formed by Mikko Aspa in Lahti, Finland in 1998. Aspa cites Darkthrone, Burzum, Beherit and Bathory as key influences. Aspa is also currently involved in many other projects, such as Stabat Mater, Creamface, Fleshpress, AM, Grunt, Clinic of Torture, Alchemy of the 20th Century and Nicole 12. Aspa is also the owner of Northern Heritage, a record label that has released albums by Baptism, Behexen, Deathspell Omega, Drudkh, Hate Forest, Ildjarn and Satanic Warmaster among others. In addition, Aspa is the owner of CF Productions (which produces the Erotic Perversion magazines and Public Obscenities videos) and Freak Animal Records (which is a power electronics / noise label).
December Wolves are a Salem, Massachusetts - based black metal band formed in 1993. Their first demo appeared in 1994. So far December Wolves has released 3 albums. On newer material the group goes in a more experimental/industrial 'post-black' direction. They are currently working on new material.
Grand Belial's Key (GBK) is a black metal band founded in Oakton, Virginia in 1992 by guitarist Gelal Necrosodomy and vocalist Lord Vlad Luciferian. Lord Vlad Luciferian was later ejected from the group due to internal differences. Although the band says their lyrical themes are simply ""anti-JewishChristian and/or anti-religion"", they have been accused of far-right and racist views. Gelal Necrosodomy has responded to these accusations by stating ""black metal to me is paganism, and paganism is neo-fascism, and neo-fascism is anti-christian, and anti-christianity is black metal. It is a circle that cannot be altered for everything fits in perfectly.""
Lord Belial is a Swedish black metal band. The band formed in 1992 and released their debut album in 1995; placing them among the pioneers of Swedish black metal. Their sound has been compared with bands such as Dissection. In January 2009, they stopped all their activities, the main reason being the growing hearing problem of their drummer, Micke Backelin. Despite an announcement in July 2010 that the band was working on new material, about one year later they announced on their official website and on Twitter that ""Lord Belial are not active. No album or gigs are planned for the moment. No interviews will be answered."" In 2013 the only members remaining are Thomas Backelin and Micke Backelin. Live session musicians are Fredrik Wester on guitars, and Adam Chapman on bass.
Sólstafir is an Icelandic heavy metal band, formed in 1995. The band's name is the Icelandic word for crepuscular rays.
Dimmu Borgir (/ˌdɪmuː ˈbɔːrɡɪr/ or Norwegian: [dɪmmʏ bɔɾgiɾ] or Norwegian pronunciation: [dɪmmʏ bɔʁgiʁ]) is a Norwegian symphonic black metal band from Oslo, Norway, formed in 1993. The name is derived from Dimmuborgir, a volcanic formation in Iceland, the name of which means ""dark cities"" or ""dark castles/fortresses"" in Icelandic, Faroese and Old Norse. The band has been through numerous lineup changes over the years; guitarist Silenoz and vocalist Shagrath are the only original members who still remain with guitarist Galder being a longstanding member.
Children Of Bodom is a melodic death metal band from Espoo, Finland. Formed in 1993, the group currently consists of Alexi Laiho (vocals, lead guitar), Janne Wirman (keyboards), Henkka Seppälä (bass), Jaska Raatikainen (drums) and Daniel Freyberg (rhythm guitar). In total they have released nine studio albums, two live albums, two EPs, two compilation albums and one DVD. The band's third studio album, Follow the Reaper, was their first album to receive a Gold certification in Finland, and since then, all seven of the band's studio albums have acquired the same status. In Finland, Children Of Bodom has released three consecutive albums that debuted at number one on Finnish album charts, and has also seen chart positions on the United States Billboard 200. The band has incorporated many different musical styles, leading critics and fans to label them as melodic death metal, power metal, and thrash metal. They are one of Finland's best selling artists of all time with more than 250,000 records sold there alone.
Dawn is a Swedish melodic black metal band, from Linköping formed by Frederik Söderberg in 1990; while they disbanded for nearly a decade, they have reconvened and are active today. The band has released eight recordings, including two full-length albums. The album The Fourfold Furnace was announced as early as 2003, and finally scheduled to be released in 2008 (""Dawn website"". Retrieved 2008-02-26.). However, as of 2016, the album has still not been released.
Scum is a hardcore punk/black metal band formed in 2002 with members from Amen, Emperor, Zyklon and Turbonegro. All members are Norwegian except for American vocalist Casey Chaos. According to the band, their idea is to play ""black metal with a real punk rock attitude"". Their album, Gospels for the Sick, was recorded in one single session in 2004, and they have only had a few live performances, one being at the Norwegian festival (Øya Festivalen) in the summer of 2005, and another at Camden Underworld in London, which footage of is available on YouTube. The band had guest appearances from several artists, one of which was Mortiis who cowrote and performed on the yet unreleased song ""Speaking in Tongues"".
Zyklon-B was a Norwegian black metal band founded in 1995. The band’s members were Tomas ""Samoth"" Thormodsæter Haugen (guitar and bass) and Vegard ""Ihsahn"" Sverre Tveitan (keyboard) from Emperor, Kjetil ""Frost"" Haraldstad (Drums) from Satyricon and Björn ""Aldrahn"" Dencker Gjerde (vocals) from Dødheimsgard. Their lyrics deal mainly with death, apocalypse and warfare. The band recorded only one EP; other versions of the featured songs were featured on split releases with Mayhem and Swordmaster. The band Zyklon featuring members of Zyklon-B is often thought to be the same band, which is wrong. The name refers to Zyklon B, a gas used in gas chambers during the Holocaust. However, the band states that ""Zyklon-B is not related to any political or racial preference"".
Their second album Into The Realm Of The Occult will be released November 2013 by Italian label ATMF Records.Arvas has shared stages with bands like Throne Of Cartasis, Urgehal, Dauden, 1349, Mongo Ninja, Nocturnal Breed etc.In March 2013 Arvas toured the east European countries supporting Deicide on their 'End Of The World Tour'
Noctuary was an American black metal band formed in 1995 out of the ashes of small-time death-metal band Summoned. They are noted for being one of the premier new wave of American black metal bands in the mid to late 1990s.
Ruins is an Australian black metal band, based in Hobart, Tasmania. The band was formed somewhere between 2000 and 2002 by Alex Pope, (formerly of the Sea Scouts,) and Dave Haley (The Amenta, Blood Duster and Psycroptic).
Woe is an American black metal band formed in 2007 in Philadelphia. Originally a solo project of Chris Grigg, the band now includes guitarist Ben Brand and bass guitarist Grzesiek Czapla as permanent members.
Antaeus are a French black metal band.
Blasphemy are a black/death metal band formed in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada in 1984. The band released a demo titled Blood Upon the Altar in 1989 and their debut album, Fallen Angel of Doom, the following year through Wild Rags, a record label they had signed to while touring the United States. The band's vocalist later stated the label did not pay them as much as promised. Their second and so far last full-length studio album was the 1993 Gods of War released through Osmose Productions. In 1993, Blasphemy also took part in the ""Fuck Christ Tour"" and toured through Europe with Immortal and Rotting Christ. The band's July 2001 concert in Vancouver was released as a live album titled Live Ritual – Friday the 13th in 2002. They were inactive until 2009, when they played two concerts; one in Montreal and one in Helsinki, in the Black Flames of Blasphemy festival, with Proclamation, Black Witchery, Revenge and Archgoat. In 2010, Blasphemy headlined the second installation of the Nuclear War Now! festival in Germany. Blasphemy's song ""War Command"" has been covered by Beherit and the cover appeared on Beherit's 1999 compilation album Beast of Beherit - Complete Worxxx. Blasphemy's ""Winds of the Black Gods"" was the opening track on the 2004 compilation Fenriz Presents... The Best of Old-School Black Metal.
Judas Iscariot was an American black metal band. It began in 1992 as the solo-project of Andrew Harris, who performed under the pseudonym Akhenaten (after the Egyptian Pharaoh of the same name). With the release of Heaven in Flames (1999), Duane Timlin (aka Cryptic Winter) joined the band as a session drummer. During 1999 and 2000, Akhenaten twice performed live with a line-up featuring members from Nargaroth, Krieg, Absu and Maniac Butcher. After relocating to Germany, Akhenaten announced the demise of Judas Iscariot on August 25, 2002.
Deathspell Omega is a French black metal band. Their lyrical content deals primarily with Satanism on a metaphysical level – as the band has stated that ""all other interpretations of Satan are intellectually invalid"" – and other various theological topics. They have recently completed a series of three concept albums which focus on the theological aspects of God, Satan and man's relationship with the two. Some of their lyrical inspiration revolved around existentialist themes coming from the post-surrealist Georges Bataille, Friedrich Nietzsche and the German idealist Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.
In the Woods... is a Norwegian heavy metal band from Kristiansand, formed in 1992. The band released a total of four studio albums, three singles, one compilation album and one live album throughout its initial existence. The band was formed by previous members of the similar-styled band Green Carnation, and was disbanded from 2000 to 2014.
Ofermod are a black/death metal band formed in Sweden in 1996.
The Ruins of Beverast is a black metal solo project by ex-Nagelfar member Alexander von Meilenwald. In 2004, the debut album was released. As of 2013, four studio albums and one compilation have been released.
Paradox was a Christian black metal band founded in London, England, in 1996 by guitarist and vocalist Michael, using the pseudonym ""John Tarantula"". They were reported to be, at the time, the only dark metal band in London promoting Christianity. Originally formed as a three-piece family unit, they released a demo The Outcasts in 1997 through their own record label, Tarantula Promotions. In 1998, a fourth member joined as a vocalist, and a second demo was released in 2000 entitled Through Pain There Is Joy. Following this release, the band reformed around Michael as a five-piece unit, and a sixth member later joined part-time on keyboards. In 2002, Paradox disbanded, releasing their last two songs as part of a compilation album entitled Overcome or Burn Forever in Hell/Arachnid Terror Sampler, which featured tracks from fourteen other artists. Following the breakup of the band, the projects Bloodshed and Slimegem were formed, and a third band, Hamal 'ak Hamashith, was promoted through Tarantula Promotions.
Triumphator were a Swedish black metal band consisting of Tena on bass, Arioch on guitar and vocals and Fredrik Andersson on drums, who released a demo, an EP and one album between 1996 and 1999.
Myrkur is the one-woman black metal musical project of Danish musician Amalie Bruun. Myrkur is signed to Relapse Records; initially the real-life identity of the person behind the project was kept unknown. The project debuted with a self-titled EP in 2014; Bruun provided the vocals, played all guitars and bass and produced the album. Drums were played by her friend Rex Myrnur. In June 2015, Myrkur announced the release of a full length album, entitled M, which was released on August 21, 2015 via Relapse Records. The album was produced by Kristoffer Rygg of Ulver, and featured Teloch of Mayhem and Nidingr on guitars, with Øyvind Myrvoll of Nidingr and Dodheimsgard on drums.
N.K.V.D. is a French industrial black metal project, formed in 2005.
Cobalt is a black metal band with avant-garde metal, extreme metal and progressive metal influences from Greeley, Colorado, founded in 2002. Cobalt described themselves as ""war metal"" in their earlier stages. Cobalt have only toured live once in the US, including a performance at Maryland Death Fest in 2013.
Darkspace is an ambient black metal band from Bern, Switzerland. In contrast to most misconceptions about black metal productions, the focus of their music is not satanic or misanthropic; their songs' lyrics talk overall about space, darkness and cosmic mysticism. Besides dominant sounds, vocals are sporadic isolated samples from space-themed films like Stanley Kubrick's film 2001: A Space Odyssey, Event Horizon and the film Alien. The band is known for renunciation of titling their works; all of their songs bear the name of ""Dark"" and are only differentiated by a two additional numbers, being the album number and overall song number, respectively. Additionally, all of their albums are titled ""Dark Space"", differentiated only by a number indicating order of release. For example, Dark 1.6 is the sixth overall song from their first album, Dark Space 1. Counter-intuitively, their 4th album is not called Dark Space IV, but Dark Space III I.
Dorn is a German black metal band. It was founded as a solo project in 1998 by Roberto Liebig, the ex-keyboardist of pagan metal band Riger. Dorn's 2000 debut album Falschheit was recorded in the studios of CCP Records in Linz, with Liebig playing all of the instruments himself. The album received good reviews, so Liebig was signed by CCP Records and left his role in Riger. Falschheit was followed by Brennende Kälte in 2001 and Schatten der Vergangenheit in 2002. For the 2004 album Suriel, Liebig was joined by Michael Werber, Sebastian Ziem, Lars, and Ira. With this lineup, Dorn toured in Germany, but in 2005 Lars and Ira left the band. In October 2006, Liebig and the other two remaining band members recorded the album Spiegel der Unendlichkeit, which was released on February 23, 2007.
Hades Almighty is a black metal band hailing from Bergen, Norway. They were formed in 1992, originally under the moniker Hades. They were forced to change their name to Hades Almighty in 1998, following complaints from an American band with a prior claim to the name.
Not to be confused with the Infernal from Kristianstad. Infernal was an influential Swedish black metal band based in Stockholm. It was formed in 1997, mainly by David Parland (Blackmoon), who quickly teamed up with ex-Dark Funeral colleague and vocalist Themgoroth (Paul Mäkitalo), to create a band both similar to and more brutal and extreme than Dark Funeral, which Blackmoon had left in mid 1996. The band saw the participation of several members like Matte Modin (ex-Dark Funeral, Defleshed) and Impious of In Aeternum among others. The last known line-up was Blackmoon (David Parland) - guitars, Typhos (Henke Ekeroth) - vocals and guitars and Alzazmon (Tomas Asklund) - drums - this was the second real line-up, and it was dissolved in 2003. David Parland re-formed the band in late 2008 with drummer Asklund. Infernal's new musical direction showcases a slightly more accessible sound than the first two Infernal EPs, and the new musical direction is more along older death/black metal and not as blastbeat-oriented as the old Infernal. This line-up introduces David as a vocalist as well as guitarist. The line-up was planned to be expanded to a full band in time for the planned full-length album and possible live gigs. On July 14, 2009, it was revealed that Infernal had parted ways for good with drummer Tomas Asklund.A replacement in the form of Norwegian drummer Carl Engström from Astaroth and Recovery Injection has been found, and was announced on October 17. Old Necrophobic colleague and guitarist Martin Halfdan has also joined the band as a live and lead/solo guitarist mainly. Lord Abbadon joined in late 2009, also he mainly as a live member, and for a short time as a permanent bassplayer. He departed from the band for personal reasons and later committed suicide while playing in the band From Purgatory. On May 2, 2010, Colombian underground cult label Goathorned Productions released the 3-track Infernal EP ""The Infernal Return"".This release features 3 tracks recorded early 2009, with David on guitars, bass and lead vocals. Tomas Asklund (Gorgoroth, Dawn) played session drums on this EP.A demo entitled ""Hellhymns"" featured four tracks; it was the last recording before a full-length album, scheduled for release in late 2010 or early 2011. On March 19, 2013, founder David Parland died, putting an end to the band.
Inquisition is a metal band that formed in Cali, Colombia in 1988 and later relocated to Seattle, Washington. The band possessed a thrash metal sound on its earliest recordings, but began incorporating more black metal influences in 1996 with its first extended play (EP), Incense of Rest.
Katharsis are a German black metal band.
Moribund Oblivion is a Turkish black metal band from Istanbul. The band was formed by vocalist Bahadır Uludağlar in 1999. There have been several line-up changes prior to the current line-up, which now consists of Bahadir Uludaglar, Serdal Semen, Gökhan Sancaklı who was officially recruited as of August 2013.
Slavia is a Norwegian black metal band formed in 1997.
Tyrant is a Japanese symphonic black metal band.
Nachtmystium was an American psychedelic black metal band formed by Blake Judd, formerly known as Azentrius, and Pat McCormick. The band's name is derived from the German word Nacht meaning ""night"", and the made-up term mystium which resembles the Latin adjective mysticum. Judd and McCormick combined the words to create the band's name, which they state means ""Encompassing Darkness"". Nachtmystium released multiple critically praised albums between 2005 and 2012, including Instinct: Decay (2005), Assassins: Black Meddle, Part I (2008), and Silencing Machine (2012). Controversy marred the band's success in 2013, when Judd was arrested for theft charges and publicly admitted he had a severe drug problem. Over their 13-year run, Nachtmystium released seven full-length studio albums and headlined multiple concert tours.
Aeternus is a Black/Death/Dark band from Bergen, Norway. It was formed in 1993 as an idea of Ronny Hovland, calling himself Ares, and Erik Heggernes, aka Vrolok. Later in 1996 Nicola Trier, aka Morrigan, joined the duo as a bass player, forming the core trio that created the important first two albums of the band. Morrigan also created the logo picture of ravens and axes that still exists as one of the band's trademarks.
Alcest is a French shoegazing, post-metal band from Bagnols-sur-Cèze, France, founded and led by Neige (Stéphane Paut). It began in 2000 as a black metal solo project by Neige, soon a trio, but following the release of their first demo in 2001, band members Aegnor and Argoth left the band, leaving Neige as the sole member. In 2009 drummer Winterhalter from Les Discrets (and formerly Peste Noire) joined Alcest's studio line-up, after eight years with Neige as the sole full-time member. Since its creation, Alcest has released four studio albums and a number of EPs and split releases. Their most recent album, 2014's Shelter, marked a dramatic shift towards a distinctly shoegaze sound, however their upcoming album Kodama marks a return to their earlier blackgaze sound. The band are widely credited with pioneering the Blackgaze/Post-Black Metal genre, particularly through their EP Le Secret released in 2005.
(This article is about the Swedish metal band. For the British progressive rock band, see The Enid.) Craft is a Swedish black metal band, originally formed under the name ""Nocta"" in 1994. As Nocta they recorded an unreleased demo in 1997 and subsequently changed their name to ""Craft"". While musically inspired by early black metal acts such as Burzum and Darkthrone, as well as Heavy Metal bands such as Black Sabbath and Celtic Frost, their lyrics focus on misanthropy, destruction, hate, Anti-Cosmic Satanism and death resembling the older lyrics of melodic black/death metal band Dissection. After drummer Daniel Halén was fired from the band in 2005, the remaining members briefly considered putting the band on indefinite hold, but decided to continue and address his replacement in the future. In 2008 Dirge Rep (Gehenna, ex-Gorgoroth, ex-Enslaved) joined the band on session basis to work on the drums for the coming album which was released in August 2011. They're currently working on their fifth studio album.
Dark Age is a German metal band from Hamburg, Germany formed in 1995 by Eike Freese (guitar, vocals), André Schumann (drums) and Oliver Fliegel (bass guitar).
Deinonychus was a Dutch doom metal band formed in 1992 by Marco Kehren. There is a close relationship between Deinonychus and the German band Bethlehem: Kehren provided vocals on S.U.I.Z.I.D., Reflektionen auf's Sterben and Profane Fetmilch Lenzt Elf Krank, while Bethlehem bassist and lyricist Jürgen Bartsch joined Deinonychus in 2005. The first three albums and the early demos released as After the rain falls...an empty sky remains  feature Kehren on all instruments and vocals; 1999's Deinonychus  added Cradle of Filth drummer William Sarginson, and 2002's Mournument  was recorded with a full band.The band announced that they disbanded in September 2008. Marco Kehren nowadays runs a martial industrial band by the name of Nihil Novi Sub Sole (Band). Warfare
Demoncy is an American black metal band formed in 1989 by guitarist Ixithra (also known as Wicked Warlock in Profanatica). They are known for their sparse arrangements and ominous atmospheric chord progressions with emphasis on the interplay of rigidly structured harmonies against dissonant execution. Song lyrics are intentionally vague with interpretation left to the listener, but undeniably centered on occult and magical themes. Not limiting themselves only to Satanism or similarly popular paganist thinking, the band are fiercely anti-collectivist.
Desaster are a black/thrash metal band formed in Koblenz, Germany in 1988. Their lyrical themes involve war, hate and Satanism.
Drastique (formerly known as Drastic) is an avant-garde gothic metal band from Italy with progressive metal and symphonic black metal influences.
Gehenna are a Norwegian Black metal band.
Gospel of the Horns is a black metal band that was formed in 1993 by guitarist Shane Transvaal D (also of Deinonychus) & Mark Howitzer. Originating from Brisbane, Australia, the band released 2 EP's and 2 full-length albums.
Oathean is a South Korean black metal band that formed in 1993 originally under the name Odin, for the Norse/Scandinavian god. They went on a short hiatus and then changed their name three years later. Oathean's lyrics tend to deal with themes of sadness and depression. Their particular style of metal is influenced by folk metal, and incorporates Korean world music with the use of traditional Korean instruments such as the haegeum and daegeum. Founding member Do-Su Kim started and runs his own label, Jusin Productions, which releases much of the band's output, and has joined in for sessions with Holymarsh.
Ondskapt (Swedish for ""created of evil"") are a Swedish black metal band. They have previously shared members with other Swedish metal projects such as IXXI and Shining.
Satanic Slaughter was a black metal band from Sweden.
Selfmindead was a hardcore punk band from Sweden.
The Stone is a Serbian black metal band from Belgrade, Serbia, formed in 1996. They were originally known as Stone to Flesh and changed their name to The Stone in 2001.
Tsatthoggua was a German hyperspeed black metal band from Germany formed in 1989. The band used to be called Dissection (not to be confused with Swedish black metal band Dissection). Their music is described by the band as ""Satanic, sado-maso hyperspeed metal"" on their Trans Cunt Whip CD, and described by guitarist Nar Marratuk in an interview as ""German black speed metal in the tradition of Sodom, Kreator or Darkness"". Tsatthoggua have a lyrical and thematic focus on literature and enjoyment (including sado-masochism) rather than on death, hate and misanthropy like various other metal bands. Nar Marratuk states ""We adore the fun in life like drugs, alcohol, noise and sex."" The band released four self-financed promo/demo tapes and CDs between 1990 and 1995 prior to their CDs Hosanna Bizarre and Trans Cunt Whip released through Osmose Productions. Extazia was due for release through Necropolis Records in 2000 but is unavailable due to the collapse of Necropolis Records. Tsatthoggua disbanded on June 23, 2000.
Witchmaster is a metal band founded in 1996 in Zielona Góra, Poland.
Withered is an American extreme metal band from Atlanta, Georgia, founded by Chris Freeman and Mike Thompson. Both members also participate in a crust punk/grindcore band Social Infestation, which also features Mastodon bassist Troy Sanders.
Wolves in the Throne Room is an American post-black metal band formed in 2003 in Olympia, Washington. The band is primarily composed of brothers Aaron and Nathan Weaver. To date the band have released five full-length albums, two live albums, one EP, and two demos. Their latest album is 2015's Celestite, an ambient album released through their own record label Artemisia Records. According to the band, one of the founding concepts of the band is to channel the ""energies of the Pacific Northwest's landscape"" into musical form.
Zweizz is the primary performing alias of Norwegian musician and composer Svein Egil Hatlevik (born May 27, 1977). Hatlevik started using the Zweizz alias in 2003 after leaving the Norwegian black metal group Dødheimsgard. According to Hatlevik, Zweizz should be considered a one man band, not a solo project. Hatlevik defines the musical style of Zweizz as a mixture of IDM, noise, electroacoustic music and black metal. Hatlevik also uses the pseudonym Zweizz in other bands which he is also a member of, such as Umoral and Pronounced ""Sex"". As a member of Dødheimsgard he used the aliases ""Hologram"" and ""Magic/Logic"". The first Zweizz release was the 7"" EP Black Necrotic Obfuscation, issued through Vendlus Records in 2004. On March 24, 2007 Zweizz released his debut album The Yawn of the New Age, also through Vendlus Records. Later the same year Epicene Sound Systems released an untitled Zweizz cassette EP in a limited quantity of 30 copies. Side B of this release is built entirely from recordings of the Soviet ANS synthesizer. In 2011, the Norwegian record company Jester Records released the album Zweizz & Joey Hopkins that Hatlevik had been making with the late US composer and musician Joey Hopkins before the death of the latter in 2008. Hatlevik is also a founding member of the avant-garde metal group Fleurety.
Asgaroth was a black metal band from Barcelona, Spain formed in 1995. It started as a one man-project by Lord Lupus. Their international attention increased after their second album release, Red Shift, through Peaceville.
Janvs is a progressive black metal band from Genova, Italy. The band take their name from the Roman god Janus. They're known for using a Latin style of spelling in their band name and song/album names by replacing the letter ""U"" with the letter ""V"" (hence how Janus is spelled Janvs instead).
Black Breath is a band from Bellingham, Washington who moved to Seattle. They play hardcore influenced death, black, and thrash metal. A key factor of their sound is the ""Boss HM-2 Heavy Metal Pedal"", which was popularized by bands such as Entombed, Dismember and Edge of Sanity in the early 1990s.
Darkened Nocturn Slaughtercult is a German-Polish black metal band from Dormagen. They are considered to be a traditional black metal band, and as such has been interviewed in 2006 by the Franco-German TV network Arte.Their lead singer is female, which is very rare among black metal bands.
Death of Desire is a metal band formed in Bruchsal, Germany in 2008, featuring Mayhem drummer Hellhammer and vocalist Dawn Desirée. Their debut album ANTIhuman has been recorded in Knut Magne Valle's Mølla Studio and band member Morbid has said that the album will not be released until the band finds a suitable record company to release it through. Mayhem singer Attila Csihar will be guest vocalist on the track ""Inner Sanctum"".
Geasa is a Celtic metal band originating from Dublin, Ireland. Formed by Fergal Purcell and John Kavanagh in 1993 the band combines traditional Celtic music with black metal to form Celtic black metal. They have released one demo album, one EP, and three full-length albums.They came onto the scene in 1994 with the much acclaimed 'Starside' demo. The demo was widely traded in the underground and attributed to the band's later record deal. The demo itself comprises two distinct sounds; from the epic black metal sounding 'Empyrean' and 'Warrior' penned by Purcell to the more Celtic sounding 'Starside' and 'Rite of passage' written mainly by Kavanagh. Indeed it was this black metal sound lost when Purcell quit the band in 1996 that resulted in the band's major and sometimes-lamented change in sound style post Starside.
I Shalt Become is a black metal musical project of Mainman S. Holliman formed in the United States in 1995. Before the project disbanded in 1999, S. Holliman recorded two official demos: Wanderings in 1998 and In the Falling Snow in 1999. In the same year, the In the Falling Snow demo was released as a bootleg under the name Birkenau. In 2008 In the Falling Snow has been remastered and reissued as an I Shalt Become record, and the project has become active again. The band belongs to the atmospheric–depressive subgenre of black metal. The lyrical themes deal with abstract concepts and subjects such as desolation and emptiness. With its unique sound, I Shalt Become became an admitted member of today's underground black metal scene.
Infestum is a Belarusian black metal band, formed in 2000 in Minsk. Early works of Infestum had elements of Pagan metal, but the band later changed its style to a black metal sound. Russian label More Hate Productions considers this band one of the most respectful bands from ex-USSR black metal scene.
Kat & Roman Kostrzewski (""Kat & RK"") is a Polish thrash metal band formed by Roman Kostrzewski and Ireneusz Loth after they had left their original band KAT in 2004. Most of the fanbase of KAT views Kat & Roman Kostrzewski as its rightful successor, mainly due to the characteristic vocals of Roman, his lyrics and choice to sing in Polish language as in most of KAT's original albums. Since 2004 the group has toured extensively through Poland, while composing material for their first album Biało-czarna"" (White-and-black), which was released in April 2011 by Mystic Production. First samples off the new album were released in late 2010.
Lightning Swords of Death is an American black metal band formed in 2003 by vocalist Autarch and guitarist Roskva in Los Angeles, California. Lightning Swords of Death signed a record deal with Metal Blade Records in 2009 and continued to push their music through their DIY attitude, getting multiple tracks on the PSP game Undead Knights as well as a track featured on the soundtrack for the 2009 film The Stepfather.
Lugubre is a black metal band from Friesland, Netherlands. It started as a solo project in 1999 by Striid. He started to spread his ""anti-human"" black metal with his first demo ""Kriich"" in 1999, which was released by at War Records (known from their releases of Judas Iscariot, Tsjuder and Blasphemous Evil). Hermit, teamed up with founding member Striid in 2000 and they formed a band around them in 2001. In 2003 Lugubre signed to Folter Records and released their debut album, Anti Human Black Metal.
Mgła (English: Fog) is a Polish black metal band. It was formed in 2000 in Kraków by Mikołaj ""M."" Żentara (also in Kriegsmaschine).
Myrkgrav is a Norwegian blackened folk metal band. It is a one-man band, with the single member being Lars Jensen. Jensen founded the band in 2003 and released a demo in 2004 entitled Fra fjellheimen kaller... (English: From The Mountain Home Calls...). His debut album, Trollskau, skrømt og kølabrenning (Trollish Woods, Wraiths and Coalburning), was released 27 October 2006. The lyrics are about local history, legends and folklore from Ringerike, Lommedalen, and Hole, from around the 17th century to the end of the 19th century. The songs are sung in a local dialect of Norwegian.
Ov Hell is a Norwegian black metal supergroup started by Shagrath and King ov Hell in 2009. The band's debut album, The Underworld Regime, was released in February 2010 by Indie Recordings.
Project: Failing Flesh is a metal band founded in Vienna, Virginia, United States in 2003, featuring former Voivod vocalist Eric Forrest. They released their third album, entitled Count Back from Ten, in 2010
Thy Catafalque is an avant-garde metal band from Makó, Hungary (early), later Edinburgh, Scotland, after the relocation of its founder.
Umbrtka is a metal band from Plzeň, Czech Republic. The band describe their music, which incorporates black, doom, industrial metal elements and is influenced by Czech underground, as 'grey' metal. The main themes of their lyrics are deserted industrial areas, factories, power plants, railways, dirty streets, trains, and other industrial elements. 'Umbrtka' is a name for a 'deity' which rules the grey industrial world. It is based on a working-class man called Ivo Krátký, formerly employed in Skart, Plzeň's scrapyard which, within the band's lyrics, is considered a 'temple of labor'.
Black Anvil are an American black metal band from New York City. The band formed in 2007 with Paul Delaney, Gary Bennett and Raeph Glicken. When asked about how they got their name as a band, they said “Gary actually came up with name, which is a cross between a Black Sabbath reference and a Judas Priest song.” They are one of the very few but prominent bands in the New York City black metal scene.
Black Horizonz is a German black metal band from Kamen, Germany.
Catuvolcus is a Canadian metal band from Warwick, Quebec. They combine elements of folk metal, black metal and progressive metal. Catuvolcus' lyrics are mostly in French. According to Plessix, they took their name in reference to Catuvolcus, the king of half of the country of the Eburones, a people between the Meuse and Rhine rivers, who united with Ambiorix, the other king, in the insurrection against the Romans in 54 BC. Catuvolcus' lyrics mainly deal with historical events of the Roman invasion in Gaul.
Caïna is an English one-man post-black-metal band from Manchester, formed in 2004 by Andrew Curtis-Brignell (known as ""A"" on early releases).
Chakal (Portuguese transliteration from original Portuguese word for ""jackal""; ""chacal"") is a thrash/black metal band from Belo Horizonte, Brazil. The band formed in 1985 and has to date released five albums through Cogumelo Records. Its debut record, Abominable Anno Domini, has been described as an ""influential, genre-defining"" example of Brazilian heavy metal.
Dragged Into Sunlight is an extreme metal band from the United Kingdom founded in 2006. The music is influenced by the Doom Metal, Sludge Metal, Black Metal and Death Metal genres. The band consists of four balaclava-wearing individuals who haven't disclosed their identity, and live they play with their backs to the audience, often accompanied by candles and a single stroboscope for lighting and large amounts of smoke. Their debut album, Hatred For Mankind, was produced by the acclaimed Billy Anderson. Following the release of the album the band played Damnation Festival and Maryland Deathfest. Their second album, Widowmaker, is a 40-minute song which received high praise from the music press.
Holocausto are a thrash/black metal band from Belo Horizonte, Brazil. They were formed in 1985 by Marco Antônio, Valério Exterminator and Rodrigo dos Anjos. To date they have released five records through Cogumelo Records. They have been described by the journalist Eduardo Rivadavia as ""Quite possibly the most controversial Brazilian heavy metal band ever"".
Midvinter is a black metal band from Sweden founded in 1993 by members of Apollgon, Fogbound and Melek Taus. The band released one demo entitled Midvinternatt in 1994, and later released their debut full length studio album At the Sight of the Apocalypse Dragon in 1997. The album was produced by King Diamond guitarist Andy La Rocque. Soon after the album's release the band broke up although they have since reformed with founding member Damien Midvinter (ex-Apollgon, ex-De Infernali) being the only original member. Kheeroth (ex-Setherial), who sang on At the Sight of the Apocalypse Dragon, has returned to once again perform vocal duties. Since the band reformed in 2006 they have not released new material although they have reissued their debut album with alternate artwork.
Mutilator were a thrash / black metal band, formed in 1985 in Belo Horizonte, Brazil. They released two full-length records through Cogumelo Records in the 1980s.
Posthum is a metal band from Nannestad, Norway. The band was founded in 2004 by Jon Kristian Skare (guitar, bass, vocals) and Morten Edseth (drums). The music is more to the ambient/progressive side of the genre than the aggressive, and can be compared to acts like Wolves in The Throne Room, Ulver, or old Enslaved.
Abigail Williams is an American black metal band, originally from Phoenix, Arizona, but now based in Olympia, Washington. Since their formation in 2004, the group has suffered near-constant changes to their line-up. The band even disbanded in 2007 for a short time before reforming and writing their debut full-length album. Shortly after an eight-week tour in support of their debut full-length album In the Shadow of a Thousand Suns (2008), vocalist Ken Sorceron would become the only original member remaining. The group initially performed a symphonic black metal style, but with the release of the band's second full-length album In the Absence of Light (2010), Abigail Williams would switch to a purist black metal sound that was also carried out into their third full-length album titled Becoming (2012).
Sarcófago was an influential Brazilian extreme metal band. They were fronted by Sepultura's original singer, Wagner Lamounier, and Geraldo Minelli. The front cover of the band's debut album, I.N.R.I., is regarded as a great influence on black metal's corpse paint style make-up. That record is also considered one of the ""first wave"" albums that helped shape the genre. Their second LP, The Laws of Scourge, was one of the first technical death metal records to be released. The band broke up in 2000, after releasing the Crust EP. Former members, minus Wagner, played throughout Brazil in 2006 under the moniker Tributo ao Sarcófago (Tribute to Sarcófago). In 2009, rumors surfaced that the original I.N.R.I. line-up were reuniting for a small, high-profile tour, but proved to be false. A reissue of their back catalogue is in the works, a joint effort between Cogumelo Records and American label Greydaze.
Valkyrja is a Swedish black metal band that formed in Stockholm, Sweden in 2004. They released their first demo in the same year under the name Funeral Voices. The demo was re-released on cassette September 11, including additional material, on underground label Deathkrush Productions - re-titled Far Beyond. Their debut album was recorded at Necromorbus Studio in March / April of '07 and released in autumn of the same year by German label Northern Silence Productions as CD in jewelcase, special edition CD in metal case and 12"" LP on black / marble wax. They recorded their second album in June/July 2009 at Necromorbus Studio in Stockholm, Sweden. The album, 'Contamination', was released on January 15, 2010 through Metal Blade Records. They recorded their third album, 'The Antagonist's Fire', in June/July 2013 again at Necromorbus Studio in Stockholm, and again produced by Tore Stjerna, and the album was released on 11 November 2013 through World Terror Committee. Neil Pretorious of About.com reviewed the album, awarding it 4/5, writing that ""this really is an ace album on all fronts. That patented Swedish vibe is all over the place, the delivery is tight and energetic and the production is surprisingly crisp."" Marcos Garcia of Metal Temple also praised the album, giving it 9/10, writing that ""they really show a musical style that deserves our attention.""
Obtained Enslavement was a black metal band from Stord, Norway. They formed in 1989 and decided to split up in 2000 because Pest moved to the United States, and they did not succeed in finding a new singer. The most notable members, Pest and Torgrim Øyre, have also been members of the black metal band Gorgoroth.
Spektr is an experimental black metal duo formed in 2000, in Paris, France. They are currently signed to Candlelight Records and have released two full-length albums to date. The band's sound is a mix of raw black metal in style of Darkthrone with elements of industrial and dark ambient, which has drawn comparisons to the more recent works of fellow countrymen Blut Aus Nord. Their work has drawn very wide attention and acclaim, with their first being dubbed 'the weirdest black metal album ever' by Aquarius Records in San Francisco, and their second being acclaimed as ""absolutely essential, unique and memorable"" and ""an album with a solid artistic value"". Very little is known about the members of this group, other than that they are also involved with the black metal groups Battlehorns and Haemoth. The band is scheduled to release its fourth full-length album, entitled The Art to Disappear, on 29 January 2016 via Agonia Records.
Faustcoven is a black/doom metal band from Norway, founded in 2002 by Gunnar Hansen. Faustcoven is aiming for a heavier, more gloomy sound than the usual sound of modern black metal bands. In an interview by The Metal Crypt, asked about his inspirations for Faustcoven's style, Hansen stated the following: I wanted to do something completely different, something darker and heavier. I also am heavily into old doom metal, and saw that the sound and heaviness of bands like Saint Vitus and Pentagram was very compatible with the more evil and frentic approach of Bathory, Venom and Mercyful Fate. And I just loved the idea of combining it into something both heavy and sinister.— (Faustcoven Interview) Faustcoven played live for the first time at the Hole In The Sky festival in Bergen, Norway the 26th of August 2009.
Unlord was a Dutch black metal band, formed in 1989. They released three studio albums before disbanding.
Blood Revolt is a black metal band featuring A.A. Nemtheanga of Primordial along with J. Read and Vermin, who previously played together in Axis of Advance and Revenge. Described as ""intensely militaristic"", Blood Revolt attracted controversy with its 2010 debut, Blood Revolt, due to lyrical content that assumed the perspective of a suicide bomber. Nemtheanga explained that the violence of the lyrics was based in realistic subject matter rather than ""cartoon imagery or fantastical pseudo religious hocus pocus"". For Nemtheanga, the subject matter is more effective owing to its realism: this is the sniper filing down the pin before picking off innocents, this is the suicide bomber's sweaty greasy hand on the ignition, dead bodies piled in the politics of the mass grave. Unforgiving and unrelenting elitism. The concept of Indoctrine describes ""a man's descent from alienation to martyrdom in eight chapters through religious indoctrination, madness, to bomb making, serial killing and ultimately revenge. It could be set anywhere throughout this world; all you need to do is turn on the news and you can see the inspiration"". While some have interpreted the lyrics as cautioning against religious fanaticism, A.A. Nemtheanga clarified that this was incorrect: ""There's absolutely no caution whatsoever, in fact if anything, it praises the dedication and sacrifice of the character. The album doesn't judge, that’s not the point"".
Arckanum is a Swedish black metal project formed in 1993 by Johan ""Shamaatae"" Lahger, who is the only constant member. Shamaatae is also an author of occult literature and writes under the names Vexior/Ekortu. His first published work, titled PANPARADOX, was released the 13th of July 2009 by Ixaxaar. His second book, GULLVEIGARBÓK, was released on December 2010 by Fall of Man. His latest book will be released by Ixaxaar on December, 21st 2014 called Þursakyngi, it is said to be a ""book series"" with each book dedicated to the Thursatru tradition.
Bethlehem is a German heavy metal band from Grevenbroich, formed in 1991 by Jürgen Bartsch and Kläus Matton. Before starting Bethlehem, Bartsch and Matton used to play in a German thrash metal band Morbid Vision. Bethlehem have been credited for inventing the heavy metal style dark metal, named after their first full-length album. Many of their lyrics revolve around sickness, morbidity, suicide, death and madness, and may to some extent be personal to the band.
Immortal is a black metal band from Bergen, Norway, founded in 1990 by frontman and bassist Abbath Doom Occulta (Olve Eikemo) and guitarist Demonaz Doom Occulta (Harald Nævdal). The pair worked with various drummers (including Grim, Armagedda and Hellhammer) for their first three albums, and were later joined by current drummer Horgh (Reidar Horghagen) in 1996. In March 2015, Abbath announced that the band split up and he will be forming a new band under his name, Abbath. However, in August 2015, Demonaz and Horgh claimed that the band ""never stopped"", and that it would continue without Abbath. Demonaz was announced as the new lead singer of the band in May 2016.
Old Man's Child is a Norwegian black metal band from the city of Oslo. The band is the brainchild of Galder (formerly known as Grusom; birth name: Thomas Rune Andersen) who is the only permanent member of the band now.
Order from Chaos was an extreme metal band formed in 1987 in Kansas City, Missouri, United States by Pete Helmkamp, Chuck Keller and Mike Miller. They are recognised as being an extremely influential group in the early US black metal scene, and served as a launching pad for its band members that went on to form such groups as Angelcorpse, Ares Kingdom, Revenge, Vulpecula, and Kerasphorus.
(For the Dutch band, see Portall (band).) Portal is an Australian extreme metal band whose style is an unorthodox fusion of death metal with black metal. The band's hybrid musical style is characterised by heavily distorted guitar riffs, down-tuned rhythms, and vocals ranging from ""menacing, echoing"" sound effects to guttural grunts. Writing for Popmatters, Adrien Begrand noted that ""death metal always pretends to be scary, but [...] it's all rather harmless. That said, however, I make no mistake in saying that the death metal peddled by Australia’s Portal is truly friggin' terrifying"". Lead guitarist Horror Illogium has described Portal's intent as ""to capture a cinematic horror scope"".
Rest are an instrumental rock group from Cork, Ireland. The group's sound has evolved over the course of their existence to incorporate elements of progressive rock, tech-metal, post-rock, doom, black metal and math rock. The groups sound is characterised by intricate harmonised riffs, complex drum patterns, unconventional song structures, a heavy emphasis on dynamics and alternating time signatures. As well as releasing one album and an EP on Limerick independent record label Out on a Limb Records, the band has also toured Ireland and the United Kingdom, sharing stages with the likes of Isis, Cult of Luna, Oxbow, Baroness, Torche, Zu, Red Sparowes and Explosions in the Sky.
Sodom is a German thrash metal band from Gelsenkirchen, formed in 1981. They have gone through many line-up changes, leaving bassist/vocalist Tom Angelripper as the only constant member. Along with Kreator, Destruction and Tankard, Sodom is considered one of the ""Big 4"" of Teutonic thrash metal. While three of those bands (except Tankard) created a sound that would influence death metal and black metal, Sodom's early music style would greatly influence many late 1980s and early 1990s black metal bands more than others. To date, Sodom has released fifteen studio albums, three live albums, two compilation albums and six EPs. They achieved their first commercial success with their third studio album Agent Orange (1989), which was the first thrash metal album to enter the German album charts, where it reached number 36. Sodom remains one of the best-selling thrash metal acts of all time, having sold over one million records.
Torment is a Peruvian black metal band formed in 2004 by Satanael (guitar, vocals) and Raksaza (drums). They are renowned for introducing noise music into black metal in their early albums. This band is also infamous for the drummer's involvement in some National Socialist black metal bands. The band self-released their first demo ""Black Holocaust"" in 2004. After this they signed with the Peruvian label Sad Spirit Productions for the release of the ""Pale Proud Slaughter"" demo in 2005 and the ""Satanic Black Terror"" EP in 2006. In 2007 the Chinese label Funeral Moonlight Productions edited a compilation album entitled ""Black Terrorism"" containing all their previous releases. In 2008, the Canadian label Funeral Rain Records produced the band's first full length called ""Hircus Emissarius"".
Valhall is a Norwegian doom metal band. The band is noted for having briefly had former Ulver drummer Erik Lancelot in their ranks, and for having Fenriz (of Darkthrone) (1987-present) as their main drummer.
Helheim is a Viking black metal band from Bergen, Norway.
Kreator is a German thrash metal band from Essen. Their style of music is similar to that of their compatriots Destruction, Sodom and Tankard; along with those three bands, Kreator has been referred to as one of the ""Big 4"" of Teutonic thrash metal, and they are often credited with helping pioneer death metal and black metal by containing several elements of what was to become those genres. They originally performed a speed metal style with Venom influences. Kreator's work began in the vein of thrash metal but ventured into industrial metal and gothic metal from 1992 to 1999, before eventually returning to their classic thrash sound. The band has achieved worldwide sales of over two million units for combined sales of all their albums, making them one of the best-selling German thrash metal bands of all time. To date, Kreator has released thirteen studio albums, two EPs, two live albums and three compilation albums. They gained a large underground fanbase in the international thrash metal community, and were one of the first German thrash metal bands to sign to a major label (Epic Records in 1988). However, Kreator would not have success until later albums, including their thirteenth studio album Phantom Antichrist (2012), which peaked at higher chart positions in many countries. The band's upcoming fourteenth studio album, Gods of Violence, is expected to be released in January 2017.
Angizia is an avant-garde gothic/folk metal band formed in Austria in 1994 by Michael Haas (also known as Engelke).
Astarte was an all-female black metal band from Athens, Greece, named after the goddess Astarte.
Black Flame is an Italian black metal band, formed in 1998 in the districts surrounding the towns of Asti and Turin.
Black Funeral is a black metal band formed by industrial musician and occult/chaos magic author Michael W. Ford (aka Baron Drakkheim Abaddon Nachttoter) in 1993. They played a few live shows after being signed to their record label, Behemoth Productions. An exclusive song appeared on the A Tribute to Hell - Satanic Rites compilation CD released by Full Moon Productions. Baron Nachttoter professes to practice black magic, and has released CDs with live recorded speeches, dark ambient music and live rituals. Michael W. Ford believes that black metal must be Satanic but that not all band members need to be Satanists as long as one of them is.
Cor Scorpii (Scorpion's Heart in Latin) is a Black metal band from Sogndal, Norway, founded in 2004 by Gaute Refsnes, the former keyboardist of Windir. Cor Scorpii is an alternative name of Antares, the 15th brightest star in the sky. The name was chosen because the band members felt that it conveyed a mysterious and atmospheric feeling, corresponding to the musical and lyrical content.
Dawn of Ashes is an American aggrotech / extreme metal band founded in 2000 from Los Angeles, California, United States. The band’s style consists of horror-based lyrical and visual themes presented through industrial and melodic black metal structures. The name Dawn of Ashes is an allegorical metaphor meaning ""beginning of the end"".
Den Saakaldte is a Norwegian black metal supergroup, founded in 2006 by Mikael Sykelig, featuring members of Shining, 1349 and Dødheimsgard, among others. It takes its name from a song by Ved Buens Ende. They played their first concert at Inferno Festival in 2008, headlining the John Dee stage on the second day. The reactions were positive. Their debut album, Øl, Mørke og Depresjon, which was released in March 2008 through Eerie Art records, has been described as ""a quite unique sounding album,"" as well as ""there's space for aggression and brutality, but also for dark atmospheres and ancient feelings."" The band released their second album, entitled All Hail Pessimism, on February 2, 2009. On 27 March 2011, Niklas Kvarforth, vocalist and frontman of Den Saakaldte, announced that he would be quitting the band to focus on Shining.
Gramary is a black metal band from Helsinki, Finland whose lyrics mainly consist of dark themes. Gramary is currently signed to Russian record label Helvete.ru. The band was formed in 1997 and to date has only 1 full-length album.
Huelga de Hambre (shortened as HDH) is a Peruvian band, formed in Lima, Peru, around April 1994. They started to play covers from Pearl Jam, Soundgarden, Smashing Pumpkins, Black Crowes and Soul Asylum. And released their only album, M4QUINA Y ESPIR1TU (English: Machine and Soul), in 1998.Huelga de Hambre quickly developed a distinctive quality sound with clear resemblance of their grunge influences. It has been coined as the best ""reincarnation"" of the Seattle scene in Peru. Even though the band was not widely known in the US market, it was the most salient representative of grunge music in Peru, and probably South America. They played in international venues as the PULULAHUA '99 on the same stage as with acclaimed bands like Aterciopelados and La Ley. And they also play two concerts in the US promoting their first CD in 2000. They are considered by many as the best Peruvian band of the 90's. They did win the first place in IV Concurso de Música Moderna (English: IV Contest of Modern Music) held in Lima in 1995, which certainly put them under the spotlight in the Peruvian rock scene. They separated in 2000 and some of them gave birth to Zen and Theremyn 4.
Killing Moon is a Boston, Massachusetts-based, female-fronted death metal band, formally known as WhipKraft. Vena Kava, the lead singer and founder of the band, specializes in the death growl.
Kivimetsän Druidi is a metal band from Kouvola, Finland. 'Kivimetsän Druidi' is Finnish for ""druid of the stone forest"".
Lost Eden was a Japanese melodic death metal band. Forming in 2000, they released their first album Cycle Repeats on Candlelight Records in 2006 and has since gained international attention. The band split in 2009.
Naer Mataron is a black metal band from Greece which draws on imagery from Greek mythology. The band was formed in 1994 after splitting from Nar Mataron, and was soon signed to Black Lotus Records, with whom they released four studio albums. Moving through numerous line-ups, the band has seen influences from other genres of music, including a traditional black metal release and songs featuring elements of melodic black metal and industrial music. In 2007, the band signed with Seasons of Mist, with whom they released their most recent album. The current line-up includes founding member bassist Kaiadas, former DHG vocalist, Vicotnic, and drummer Warhead, said to be the fastest drummer in Europe.
Nefastus Dies is a black/death metal band from Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
Nordafrost is a German black/death metal band founded in 1996.
Orcustus is a Norwegian black metal band formed in 2002.
Sear Bliss is a black metal band from Szombathely, Hungary, formed in 1993 by bassist, vocalist and now also keyboardist András Nagy. Apart from the usual heavy metal instruments they adopted synthesizer and wind instruments (like trumpet and trombone sometimes flute) in their songs. The Netherlands' leading metal magazine, Aardschok awarded Sear Bliss debut album Phantoms the title of ""CD Of The Month"". It was the first (and only) time in the magazine's history that the award went to a black metal album. Sear Bliss has earned a reputation in the European metal underground with their unique black metal albums released by independent record labels like Mascot Records, Red Stream and recently Candlelight Records. Sear Bliss shared the stage with bands Marduk, Tsatthoggua, Mortiis, Tormentor, Skyforger, Immolation and Malevolent Creation. After four months of studio work, the longest session ever in their career, the latest Sear Bliss album was released on September 24, 2007. Critically acclaimed The Arcane Odyssey was awarded ""Album of the Month"" by some magazines (i.e. Zero Tolerance) and was also high ranked by Kerrang, Terrorizer, Heavy Oder Was and Rock Hard magazines in Europe. The album was elected for ""Album of the Year"" on Hungarian Metal Awards in 2007.
Skeletonwitch is an American extreme metal band from Athens, Ohio, formed in 2003. The band currently consists of drummer Dustin Boltjes, bassist Evan Linger, guitarists Nate Garnette and Scott Hedrick, and vocalist Adam Clemans.
Toxic Holocaust is an American thrash metal/black metal band from Portland, Oregon.
Triptykon is a musical project of Thomas Gabriel Fischer, founding member of the pioneering heavy metal bands Hellhammer, Celtic Frost and Apollyon Sun. Fischer announced his departure from Celtic Frost in May 2008 and shortly afterwards revealed his new project would be entitled Triptykon.The name of the band is a play on the word ""triptych"", because Triptykon is founding member Thomas Gabriel Fischer's third project after Hellhammer and Celtic Frost. The band logo is inspired by a writing pattern used in Weimar Republic. Triptykon will sound as close to Celtic Frost as is humanly possible, and the album I am working on will feature all the material I envisioned for the successor to Celtic Frost's Monotheist. I desire the album to be a darker, heavier and slightly more experimental development of Monotheist. The first audio sample, for the song ""Crucifixus"", can be heard on the band's official Myspace page, among others.— Thomas Gabriel Fischer On August 5, 2009, Triptykon issued a press release indicating the recording of their debut album, Eparistera Daimones, would commence in the middle of August and continue through November, with a release in the spring of 2010. On December 21, 2009, Triptykon issued a new press release to reveal Prowling Death Records Ltd. entered into a licensing agreement with Century Media Records to release Eparistera Daimones on March 22, 2010. A follow-up EP, entitled Shatter, was released on October 25, 2010. A music video for the song Shatter has also been released. It was announced on October 22, 2013 that the new album will be titled Melana Chasmata. On February 7, 2014, Melana Chasmata's release date was revealed as being on April 14, 2014.
Wykked Wytch is a black metal band signed to Perish Music Group from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States.
Wyrd is a Finnish Pagan black metal band which was formed in 1998. The band was originally formed under the name Hellkult in 1997 by Narqath and drummer Kalma (ex- Azaghal). The first Wyrd demo was released in early 2000, ""Unchained Heathen Wrath"" featured material recorded between 1998 and 2000. The lyrical themes are centered on old folklore and Nordic mythology. The name ""Wyrd"" is from Old English, meaning fate.
Vintersorg (Swedish pronunciation: [ˈvɪntɛr ˈsɔrj]; ""Winter Sorrow"" in English) is a Swedish band from Skellefteå, formed in 1994 under the name Vargatron (Wolfthrone in English). Musically, Vintersorg has covered a wide number of heavy metal genres; while the band is mostly rooted in extreme metal styles, particularly black metal and Viking/folk metal, it has also expanded into progressive metal and avant-garde metal. Lyrically, the band deals with topics on fantasy, mythology, nature, the cosmos, and metaphysics. Vintersorg means ""Winter Sorrow,"" but the name was taken from The Legend of the Ice People series by Margit Sandemo, where the character Vintersorg is the son of a great pagan leader. The project was originally formed in 1994 to ""push the limits"" of black metal music, where the vocals are mostly clean sung, and only a few parts per song that had the traditional screaming vocals. The sound of Vintersorg has vastly changed over the years, as their earlier sound had more of a folk influence, and later on, more of an experimental sound. This transformation was most notably marked with the release of the Cosmic Genesis album, and the change in sound progressed from album to album, with the 2004 album The Focusing Blur being an extremely avant-garde album. The band's vocal elements have changed from album to album as well, starting out with low-pitched, powerful baritone singing, and gradually shifting towards softer, higher-pitched delivery with more use of harmony and layering with black metal vocals. Solens rötter, marked a return to the earlier folk metal style, while retaining the more complex and non-traditional guitar arrangements and song structures of later albums. On Jordpuls and Orkan there was a continuation with the Swedish sung material and nature oriented themes. Along with this change in musical style, the lyrical topics began to shift as well. On earlier albums, the lyrics are all written and performed in Swedish, and dealt with topics of nature and paganism. With the advent of Cosmic Genesis, the lyrics were now written and sung mostly in English, and now dealt with scientific ideas such as astronomy and cosmology, philosophies such as metaphysics, and other ideas such as astrology. In the Cosmic Genesis booklet, Vintersorg extends thanks to Dr. Carl Sagan, author of the book Cosmos. Since, then, the band has alternated between both English and Swedish lyrics, sometimes using both on the same album. In keeping with the band's return to its folk roots, the latter albums are also sung entirely in Swedish and deal with more traditional themes. Andreas Hedlund (aka Vintersorg) is constantly creating music. He is the front-man of several bands including Otyg, Borknagar, Havayoth, Fission, Cronian and Waterclime.
Mithotyn was a Viking metal band from Mjölby, Sweden.
Chryst is an Austrian avant-garde/extreme metal one-man band formed in 1990, initially under the name Korova, then changing its name to Korovakill and finally to Chryst. Their former name, Russian for ""cow"" (Russian: Корова), is also an allusion to the ""Korova Milk Bar"" of Anthony Burgess' famous novel A Clockwork Orange.
Cirith Gorgor is a Dutch black metal band that formed in 1993. The name is taken from J. R. R. Tolkien's fantasy novel The Lord of the Rings, in which Cirith Gorgor, which means the Haunted Pass, is a pass which serves as the entrance to the land of Mordor, covered by the Black Gate.
Weakling was a black metal band from San Francisco. The band never toured and released only one album, Dead as Dreams, recorded in 1998 and released on Tumult Records in 2000.
Blodsrit is a Swedish black metal band from Västervik, Sweden. The origin of the name is based, says singer Nazgûl, on an ancient pagan ritual, ""in which blood was sacrificed to achieve better harvests and a happier love life."" The name was chosen ""because of its fierce action.""
Bellzlleb (stylized as BELLZLLEᗺ) was a Japanese heavy metal band, formed in 1985 by Tetsu and Yuji in Chiba. The band's sound was heavily influenced by elements from black metal, doom metal and hardcore with philosophical influences from Aleister Crowley, the occult, horror, satanism and the dark, heavy sound of Black Sabbath. They toured the Japanese national club circuit extensively during the 1980s and the early 1990s and created various recordings until they disassociated in 1992.
Woods of Ypres were a Canadian blackened doom metal band from Ontario. The band was founded in Windsor in 2002, initially consisting of three members: David Gold, Aaron Palmer and Brian McManus. Their line-up frequently changed afterward, with over 20 members in the band through its various incarnations. The only constant member was multi-instrumentalist and frontman David Gold. The band ended after Gold's death in December 2011, just before releasing their album Woods 5: Grey Skies & Electric Light, which won the 2013 Juno Award for the Metal/Hard Music Album of the Year.
Black Achemoth is a Black Metal band from São Paulo, Brazil formed in 2003. The lyrics are mainly about occultism and satanism. The last full-length album was released by the Brazilian label Soul Erazer Distribution.
Emperor is a Norwegian black metal band formed in 1991, regarded as highly influential by critics and emerging black metal bands. The group split up in 2001, but reunited from 2005 to 2007 for a few festival dates and brief US tours, and again reunited in 2013 to 2014. The group was founded by Ihsahn (guitar/vocals) and Samoth (then, drums).
Ramesses is a sludge/doom metal band from Dorset, England, initially featuring ex-members of Electric Wizard.
Salem is an Israeli extreme metal band, pioneers of the oriental metal movement and of the Israeli heavy metal scene in general. Much of their lyrics and music deals with political issues concerning the Jewish people and Israel, most notably the concept albums Kaddish (1994) and Collective Demise (2002).
Sepultura (Portuguese pronunciation: [se.puw.ˈtu.ɾɐ], ""grave"") is a Brazilian heavy metal band from Belo Horizonte. Formed in 1984 by brothers Max and Igor Cavalera, the band was a major force in the thrash metal and groove metal genres during the late 1980s and early 1990s, with their later experiments drawing influence from alternative metal, world music, nu metal, hardcore punk and industrial metal. Sepultura has had several changes in its lineup since its formation, with Max and Igor Cavalera departing in 1996 and 2006, respectively. Sepultura's current line up consists of vocalist Derrick Green, guitarist Andreas Kisser, bassist Paulo Jr. and drummer Eloy Casagrande. Since Igor Cavalera's departure in 2006, there have been no original members left in the band; Paulo Jr. and Kisser, who joined Sepultura in 1985 and 1987 respectively, are the only members to appear on every album, although the first one featured Jairo Guedz on guitar instead of Kisser. Sepultura has released thirteen studio albums to date, the latest being The Mediator Between Head and Hands Must Be the Heart (2013). Their most successful records are Arise (1991), Chaos A.D. (1993) and Roots (1996). Sepultura has sold over three million units in the United States and almost 20 million worldwide, gaining multiple gold and records around the globe, including in countries as diverse as France, Australia, Indonesia, United States, Cyprus and their native Brazil. Sepultura's fourteenth studio album is due for release in early 2017.
Shining is a Swedish black metal band formed in 1996 by Niklas Kvarforth in Halmstad, Sweden. The band’s music contains depressive undertones, which include personal and suicide-themed lyrics. The band's name does not refer to the book The Shining or the film based on it, but rather according to Kvarforth, it means ""the path to enlightenment"".
Thrall (formerly known as Thy Plagues) is a black metal band formed in Hobart, Tasmania, currently signed to Moribund Records.
Waylander is a Northern Irish folk metal band influential in the realms of Celtic metal. Formed in 1993, the band blends traditional Irish folk with 1990s heavy metal.
Krieg (German for 'War') is a black metal band originally from Somers Point, New Jersey in the United States of America.
Witchery is a Swedish blackened thrash/speed metal band, formed by former members of Satanic Slaughter in 1997. The current lineup consists of vocalist Emperor Magus Caligula (Dark Funeral, ex-Devian), guitarists Patrik Jensen and Rickard ""Richard Corpse"" Rimfält, bassist Sharlee D'Angelo, and drummer Martin Axenrot. To date, the band has released five full-length studio albums and an EP.
Arallu is an Israeli extreme metal band. As one of the members of the Jerusalem extreme metal scene, Arallu has ""thrived off the seeming contradiction of its location within a 'holy' city.""
Cultus Sanguine was a black metal band from Italy, characterised by gloomy themes and soundscapes.
Abigor is an Austrian black metal band formed in 1993.
Ancient is a Norwegian black metal band from Bergen, formed in 1992. The band released six full-length albums released by Metal Blade Records to date and a variety of mini-albums, EPs and special releases. Ancient used to have the classic raw black metal sound, similar to Darkthrone's works. Beginning with The Cainian Chronicle, they moved towards a more Nordic/atmospheric black metal sound, akin to Emperor and a cleaner production. After a period of turmoil concerning their line-up, they went on to add gothic-style instruments such as violins, a female vocalist, and synthesizers to their music. To this day Ancient can be considered as one of the original Norwegian black metal bands that were part of the now famous scene of the early nineties. They were one of the very first Norwegian black metal bands to sign for a semi-major label (Metal Blade Records). There is no evidence of any involvement of Ancient with the infamous occurrences of the Norwegian black metal scene, although they were part of the same scene. Ancient can be considered as a historical black metal act by all standards, whose path took a different course upon their relocation around the world and subsequent exit from the local Norwegian scene.
Asmodeus is an Austrian black metal band founded in 1996.
Averse Sefira was a black metal band from Austin, Texas.
Behemoth is a Polish blackened death metal band from Gdańsk, formed in 1991. They are considered to have played an important role in establishing the Polish extreme metal underground. Until the late 1990s, the band played a traditional black metal style with heathen lyrical content, but soon changed to that of occult and thelemic themes written by their lead vocalist Nergal and Krzysztof Azarewicz. With the 1999 release of Satanica, the band demonstrated their presence in the death metal scene, while retaining their own signature style characterized by the drum work of Inferno, multi-layered vocals and Middle-Eastern influences. Despite Behemoth having been labeled as death metal or thrash metal-influenced, Nergal has mentioned that he does not like the band to be labeled.
Borknagar is a progressive black metal band from Bergen, Norway, founded in 1995 by Øystein Garnes Brun. The band's style combines black metal and folk metal with progressive and melodic elements. Borknagar's lyrics often deal with philosophy, paganism, nature, and the cosmos.
Catamenia is a Finnish black metal band founded in 1995 by Riku Hopeakoski and Mika Tönning in Oulu. They have been signed to Massacre Records since their first full-length release Halls of Frozen North in 1998. As of 2010, they have released nine albums, one EP, and one DVD. They are known for frequent usage of wolves in their album art. Catamenia means “menstruation.” The band did not know about this until a fan pointed it out to them after the release of their debut album. Catamenia is also a kind of bird.
Countess is a black metal band from the Netherlands. Formed in 1992, they have released more than a dozen full-length CDs and are considered one of the most eminent Dutch black metal bands. After years of being a solo project, as of 2014, they are a band again and play live.
Finntroll is a folk metal band from Helsinki, Finland. They combine elements of black metal and folk metal. Finntroll's lyrics are mostly in Swedish, the only exception being the song ""Madon Laulu"" on Visor Om Slutet. Finntroll's original singer, Katla, decided to use Swedish over Finnish since he was part of a Swedish-speaking minority in Finland and the sound of the language seemed to better suit the band's ""trollish"" outfit. Despite several vocalist changes, this tradition has continued. According to bandmembers Vreth and Skrymer, they took their name from an old Finnish legend where Swedish priests coming to Finland had an encounter with a wild-looking man who killed most of their party. The survivors came back bearing the tale of the Finn-Troll. Finntroll's lyrics mainly deal with legends and tales revolving around the fictional Troll-King ""Rivfader"" and the trolls fighting against the Christians who entered their lands and spread their beliefs. A recurring theme is the story of two priests named ""Aamund"" and ""Kettil"". The first three full-length albums feature a rather short but fierce song about the two men who constantly get themselves into trouble with the trolls, only to get beaten up and mutilated over and over again by the wrathful followers of Rivfader. To date, the band's discography includes six full-length albums, a live album and two EPs. Their newest studio album Blodsvept was released on March 22, 2013. In 2014, the band released the live album Natten Med De Levande Finntroll (""Night of the Living Finntroll"").
Gorgoroth is a Norwegian black metal band based in Bergen. Formed in 1992 by Infernus (who is also the only original member remaining), the band is named after the dead plateau of evil and darkness in the land of Mordor from J. R. R. Tolkien's fantasy novel The Lord of the Rings. The group used to be signed to Regain Records and had released eight full-length studio albums. A re-recording of their third album, Under the Sign of Hell, was released in 2011, and the new full-length album Instinctus Bestialis has been released on June 8, 2015. The band is now signed to Soulseller Records.
Hellhammer was a Swiss extreme metal band from Nurensdorf, active during 1981–1984. They are regarded as a key influence on black metal, and one of the founders of death metal. In June 1984, Hellhammer became Celtic Frost.
Mercyful Fate is a Danish heavy metal band from Copenhagen, formed in 1981 by vocalist King Diamond and guitarist Hank Shermann. Influenced by progressive rock and hard rock, with lyrics dealing with Satan and the occult, Mercyful Fate were part of the first wave of black metal in the early to mid-1980s. Many of the bands from this movement went on to influence later black metal musicians in the 1990s, particularly in Norway. Since the band's inception in 1981, Mercyful Fate have released seven studio albums, two extended plays and four compilations. After several line-up changes and self-made demos, Mercyful Fate released their self-titled EP in 1982, with the line-up of King Diamond (vocals), Hank Shermann (guitar), Michael Denner (guitar), Timi Hansen (bass) and Kim Ruzz (drums). With this line-up the group recorded their first two studio albums (1983's Melissa and 1984's Don't Break the Oath), until 1985 when the band broke up due to musical differences. In 1993, four out of the five members of Mercyful Fate reunited to record the album In the Shadows, which was released the same year. During the 1990s, the band released four more studio albums and went through several line-up changes. Since 1999, Mercyful Fate have been on hiatus, but have reunited on occasion during the 2000s.
Moonspell is a Portuguese gothic metal band. Formed in 1992, the group released their first EP Under the Moonspell in 1994, a year before the release of their first album Wolfheart. The band quickly gained status and became one of the most recognizable metal bands from Portugal. Moonspell reached the Portuguese top first with their album Sin/Pecado, and were, along with Metallica and Iron Maiden, the only metal band to reach the first place of the Portuguese charts after the release of their album, Memorial, in 2006. With Memorial, Moonspell also became the first Portuguese heavy metal band to have a record certified gold status. They are also popular in Germany, where their albums consistently enter the Top 100 Chart.
Samael is a Swiss symphonic black/industrial metal band formed in 1987 in Sion, Switzerland.
Satyricon is a Norwegian black metal band, formed in 1991 in Oslo. Satyr and Frost have been the band's core members since 1993. The band's first three albums typify the Norwegian black metal style. Since its fourth album in 1999, the band has strayed from this style and included elements of hard rock in their sound. Satyricon was the first Norwegian black metal band to join a multi-national record label (EMI).
Skyforger is a heavy metal band from Latvia which was formed in 1995 out of the remains of doom metal band Grindmaster Dead. Most of their songs are about pagan gods and warfare; they also play traditional Latvian folk songs and metal covers. Although Skyforger is known for their folk metal, their style on their demo Semigalls' Warchant is essentially black metal. The band also has performed and recorded a number of folk songs, including the entirety of their fourth album Zobena Dziesma (Sword Song), released in 2003. Folk elements can be found on all of their albums. In December 2005, during the presentation of their latest album, Semigalls' Warchant (2005), the band announced their next album would be an experimentation with thrash metal. They later pointed out that Latvian history still has enough untold stories, meaning their lyrics will probably retain their folk/pagan fashion. In 2010 Skyforger signed with American label Metal Blade Records and released a new studio album Kurbads.
Summoning is an Austrian black metal band. Since their formation in 1993 they have released seven albums and two EPs on Napalm Records. Their lyrics make extensive use of J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle-earth writings and mythology.
Ulver (Norwegian for ""wolves"") are a Norwegian experimental musical collective founded in 1993, by vocalist Kristoffer Rygg. Their early works, such as debut album Bergtatt, were categorised as folklore-influenced black metal, but have since evolved a fluid and increasingly eclectic musical style, blending genres such as rock, electronica, symphonic and chamber traditions, noise, progressive and experimental music into their oeuvre. 1997 marked their international debut with the release of their third album Nattens madrigal through German label Century Media. However, following discord with the label, Kristoffer Rygg formed his own imprint Jester Records in 1998. British composer and multi-instrumentalist Daniel O'Sullivan joined the collective in 2009, and the band performed some of their first live concerts in their 15-year lifespan, including the prestigious Norwegian National Opera. Ulver have sold in excess of half a million records, have over 20,000,000 plays on Last.fm, been twice nominated for the Norwegian Grammy Awards, Spellemannsprisen, in different categories, won Album of the Year at the Oslo Awards for Shadows of the Sun in 2008, won the NATT&DAG award for Best Live Act in 2011, and earned a global reputation for stylistic unpredictability. Acclaim from the artistic community includes controversial director of films Kids and Gummo, Harmony Korine, recently commented, alluding to The Marriage of Heaven and Hell: ""There's a real lineage from a composer like Wagner to a band like Ulver."" Author and musician Julian Cope has said, ""Ulver are cataloguing the death of our culture two decades before anyone else has noticed its inevitable demise.""
Ajattara is a five-piece dark metal band from Helsinki, Finland led by Pasi Koskinen (ex Amorphis). They formed in 1996, split up 2012 and reformed in 2016. They were signed to Spinefarm Records and have released six albums, their most recent being Murhat, which was released in early 2011.
Darkwoods My Betrothed was a black metal band from Kitee, Finland. Formed in 1992 as Virgin Cunt, they set out to be the ""most blasphemous black metal band in Europe"", in a rather tongue-in-cheek sense. After recording a couple demos under this name, the band started to take themselves a lot more seriously and changed their name to Darkwoods My Betrothed. They recorded the demo Dark Aureolis Gathering in 1994, not too different from the band's roots in extreme black metal, but it started to show serious maturity in the song-writing and delivery; not only a traditional black metal shriek, the singers also did a wail-type of scream. In 1995, Hammerheart Productions released Heirs of the Northstar, their first full-length album, which was a turning for the group. The band started to experiment with a slower-paced and more melodic viking metal sound, and usage of ""drunken Viking"" style clean vocals mixed with the traditional black metal screams. The lyrics were also quite different from those in the demo days; rather than dark and Satanic rantings, bassist/lyricist Teemu started a powerful fascination with Odinism and the Gods of Valhalla, and anger towards Christianity. 1996 saw the release of Autumn Roars Thunder, this time under the Solistitium label. Though retaining the same anti-Christian and Odinistic rhetoric, the music itself moved away from the melodic viking approach and entered back into a faster, more black metal-oriented direction. In 1998, the band returned with Witch-Hunts, a conceptual album which eschewed much of the melodic stylings of the previous two albums; the Viking metal sound was replaced with black metal. Due to numerous delays by the record label, it was released roughly one year after it was originally planned. After the release of ""Witch-Hunts"", the band split up for a few years until they came back with a new line-up, a compilation album and potential live work. Afterwards, the band split up again with no return.
Thy Serpent is a Finnish black metal band from Espoo. It started out as a solo project by Sami Tenetz in 1992. A full lineup was acquired in 1995.
Virgin Black is an Australian band that combines gothic-doom and symphonic metal influences. Signed to The End Records (for the United States) and Germany's Massacre Records (for Europe), the band has released 4 albums and 1 EP. Formed in 1995 in Adelaide, they have achieved international acclaim during their career, receiving praise from such magazines as Orkus, Metal Hammer and The Village Voice. Having changed their line-up several times, Virgin Black currently consists of the founding members and main songwriters: Samantha Escarbe (guitar) and Rowan London (keyboard, vocals), with Grayh (bass) and Luke Faz (drums) joining in 2007. The group explains the meaning of its name as ""the juxtaposition of purity and humanity's darkness"".
1349 is a Norwegian black metal band from Oslo, Norway, formed in 1997. The band's name comes from the year the Black Death reached Norway.
Aborym are an Italian industrial black metal band from Taranto, Apulia, formed in 1993. The band have described their music as ""alien-black-hard/industrial"", whilst Allmusic described them as playing ""a truly original brand of futuristic black metal [with] jagged samples, electronic drums, and industrial overtones, mak[ing] Aborym's peculiar sound very hard to pin down or define"". The name of the band derives from Haborym Sadek Aym, overseer of the twenty-six legions of Hell in a seventeenth-century grimoire.
Absu is an American extreme metal band from Dallas, Texas. Their demos and first album leaned towards death metal, but evolved more towards a black metal and thrash metal which includes elements of Celtic and folk music (and later, elements of jazz fusion, progressive rock and psychedelic music) which the band calls ""Mythological Occult Metal"". Their lyrical themes are esoteric, including themes of Celtic, Sumerian and Mesopotamian myths and legends, alchemy, numerology, magick, and sorcery.
Aes Dana is a French Celtic/black metal band, based in Paris. The name of the band is Old Irish for ""people of the arts"". The band mix black metal features like growling vocals or heavy guitar sound with traditional Celtic instruments like Irish flute or bombard.These characteristics, coming from the various influences of the band's early members (death metal, black metal, grindcore, but also folk music), give a very particular touch to their music. Their lyrics (in French in their last albums) often deal with Celtic mythology.
Agalloch was an American metal band formed in 1995 in Portland, Oregon, led by vocalist/guitarist/drummer John Haughm. They released five full-length albums, four EPs, two singles, one split single, two demos, four compilation albums and one live video album. They announced their disbandment in May 2016.
Alastis was a Swiss gothic black metal band formed in 1987 in Sion, Valais.
Anaal Nathrakh are a British extreme metal band formed in 1998 in Birmingham. They fuse black metal, grindcore, death metal and industrial music. They are currently signed to Metal Blade Records. The band's name comes from Merlin's Charm of Making in John Boorman's 1981 film Excalibur.
Celestia was a black metal band from Avignon, France, formed in 1995 by Noktu. Noktu was the only consistent member of the band. Celestia disbanded in 2015. Celestia remained in the demo stage until around 1999 when they released the EP ""A Cave Full of Bats"" through Drakkar Productions with a line-up consisting of Noktu (vocals, bass) and Fureïss/Franck (guitar). A few more demos, singles, split albums and a live album were done before they finally released their first full-length album ""Apparitia - Sumptuous Spectre"" (2002) through Full Moon Productions with the drummer Astreyla added to the line-up. The two main members of Celestia were Noktu and Fureïss. Fureïss was the only guitarist for Celestia from 1998 to 2005, i.e. from the promo tape « A Dying Out Ecstasy » (1998) until the second mix of the 2002 album « Apparitia Sumptuous Spectre » in 2005 and he composed half the songs (the other half by Noktu) and arranged and recorded all the tracks on Celestia during this time. The current line-up is Noktu (vocals, guitar, bass) and Ghaast (guitar). With the drummer Astreyla, who left the band, they recorded Celestia's second album ""Frigidiis Apotheosia : Abstinencia Genesiis"" released in 2008 through Apparitia records and generally keeping the same minimalistic black metal sound. Malefic (Xasthur), a guest on the album, also added some keyboards to the music. Nowadays, various session drummers and guitarists are brought in for rehearsals, recordings and live shows. Noktu also owns a record label called Drakkar Productions, on which he released some of The Black Legions (a group of French underground black metal bands) albums. Noktu also played in the band Mortifera, doing guitar, bass and vocals, while Neige (Alcest) handled the drums, half of the vocals and composed tracks such as ""Ciel Brouillé"" and ""Le Revenant"". Mortifera has almost the same sound as Celestia. As well, Noktu has played in Genocide Kommando and Gestapo 666.
Cruachan is a Folk Metal band from Dublin, Ireland that has been active since the 1990s. They have been acclaimed as having ""gone the greatest lengths of anyone in their attempts to expand"" the genre of folk metal. They are recognised as one of the founders of the genre of folk metal. With a specific focus on Celtic music and the use of Celtic mythology in their lyrics, Cruachan's style of folk metal is known as Celtic metal. The band named themselves after the archaeological site of Rathcroghan in Ireland also known as Cruachan.
Dark Funeral is a Swedish black metal band from Stockholm, Sweden, founded by guitarists Blackmoon and Lord Ahriman in 1993. They emerged during the second wave of black metal. Their lyrical themes have traditionally pertained to Satanism and anti-Christianity. Certain past and present members including Blackmoon, Ahriman, Caligula and Chaq Mol have each declared an affinity for Satanism, with Ahriman and Caligula notably being practitioners of LaVeyan Satanism. In their earlier years, their lyrical themes usually revolved specifically around depictions of Hell and Satan. After Emperor Magus Caligula joined the band, their lyrics came to focus more on blasphemy and anti-Christian rhetoric, although there have been several exceptions to this. The group have released six full-length albums and are one of the most prominent acts in the Swedish black metal scene.
Destruction is a German thrash metal band. They are considered one of the ""Big 4"" of the German thrash metal scene, the others being Kreator, Sodom and Tankard. Along with Venom (UK), Bathory (Sweden) and Celtic Frost (Swiss), three of those four German bands (Tankard being the exception) are often credited with helping pioneer black metal, by containing several elements of what was to become the genre. Destruction was originally named Knight of Demon, but changed their name in 1984. For most of the 1990s, Destruction was not signed to a record label and was forced to self-produce their albums until they signed a contract with Nuclear Blast in the early 2000s.
Diabolical Masquerade was a Swedish one-man black metal band with progressive influences. The band was formed in 1993 in Stockholm as side project of Anders Nyström (aka Blakkheim), known for his work as the guitarist of Katatonia.
In 1988, a thrash metal band by the name of Siren’s Yell was formed in the Swedish town of Strömstad. Its members were Jon Nödtveidt, Ole Öhman, Peter Palmdahl, and Mattias “Mäbe” Johansson. The group recorded a single demo before breaking up in 1989. Nödtveidt joined the band Rabbit’s Carrot, where Öhman played drums. Nödtveidt and Öhman “were never very comfortable in Rabbit's Carrot, which also explains their short time in that band, as they wanted the music and lyrics to evolve on the extreme dark side. Jon would write songs and arrange them together with Ole in the rehearsal place, but the other members, didn't feel that the material would fit the band.” In autumn 1989, Jon Nödtveidt formed Dissection together with Palmdahl on bass. In the spring of 1990, they recruited drummer Öhman. In April 1990, the first official rehearsal tape Severed into Shreds was recorded and sent to underground fanzines worldwide “to mark the birth of DISSECTION, a band that was about to make heavy impact on the scene”. The band recruited former Siren’s Yell bassist Mattias “Mäbe” Johansson, who was now playing with the local death/thrash metal band Nosferatu, as a live session member playing the rhythm guitar. Dissection’s first concert was held in October 1990 with death metal act Entombed. In December 1990, the band recorded and released the demo The Grief Prophecy. It contained three songs and featured illustrations by the artist known as Necrolord, who later created most Dissection album artworks. In January 1991, second guitarist John Zwetsloot joined the band, which now had a complete line-up “and could further develop their characteristic dual-harmony guitar-sound that was to become an important part of the band's sound”. The first concert with Zwetsloot was held in February 1991 at a local death metal event in the band’s hometown Strömstad. As the demo was spreading in the underground scene, the French record label Corpsegrinder Records offered Dissection a deal to record an EP. In April 1991, Dead, the notorious Norwegian black metal group Mayhem’s vocalist, committed suicide. A few days later, Dissection played the Mayhem song Freezing Moon in honour of Dead at a show in Falkenberg, Sweden, and made an unofficial special edition of the The Grief Prophecy demo with a cover drawn by Dead. In September 1991 the band record three new tracks for the 7” EP Into Infinite Obscurity, released in December 1991 by Corpsegrinder Records in a limited edition of 1000 copies. In December 1991 Nödtveidt and Öhman also played live in Askim, Norway, at a black metal concert arranged by the Norwegian Black Circle Nödtveidt had joined, and Euronymous, who led the Circle and the band Mayhem. Nödtveidt, Öhman and Euronymous performed Freezing Moon live. In 1992 Dissection recorded a four-track promo tape and signed a one-album deal with No Fashion Records. In March 1993, the band recorded the full-length album The Somberlain, recorded and mixed at Hellspawn/Unisound studios with Dan Swanö. During that time, the band’s members, who were temporarily living in different towns, all moved to Gothenburg after the summer of 1993, where they shared a steady rehearsal place with At the Gates. The album was released in December 1993 and dedicated to Euronymous, who had been murdered earlier the same year. As the band members “would find themselves rehearsing more and more without John [Zwetsloot] even showing up” and “even had to cancel gigs because he didn't show up for the preparing rehearsals”, they “felt they had their hands tied behind their backs with John still in the band and that they could do nothing but kick him out”. The last concert with Zwetsloot was performed in Oslo, Norway, on 14 April 1994. The day Zwetsloot was fired, Dissection called Johan Norman from Satanized (a short-lived project Nödtveidt was involved with), who showed up one day later and “proved to be a worthy replacement for John, having the motivation that John was lacking”. Dissection continued playing live, wrote songs for a second album, and entered the studio twice to record demos of new songs and the contribution Anti-Christ for the Slayer tribute compilation album Slatanic Slaughter on Black Sun Records. In November 1994, Dissection signed a deal with Nuclear Blast and focussed on the second album. In March 1995, the band returned to the Hellspawn/Unisound studios to record the second full-length album Storm of the Light's Bane, followed by a three date tour through the UK with Cradle of Filth and a few concerts in Sweden. During the summer of 1995 Nödtveidt and Norman joined the newly formed Satanic organization Misanthropic Luciferian Order (MLO). In September 1995 drummer Ole Öhman left Dissection and was replaced by Tobias Kellgren (ex-Satanized). He was introduced to the Swedish fans at a show with Morbid Angel at Kåren in Gothenburg, the 10th of October 1995. In November 1995, Storm of the Light’s Bane was released by Nuclear Blast, followed by a two-week European tour through Germany, Austria, Czech Republic, Switzerland and Sweden in December 1995, and the World Tour of the Light’s Bane covering Europe and America, ending in 1997. By the beginning of January 1996, Dissection was playing shows in Sweden before leaving for a UK tour with At the Gates in February, followed by a vast US tour with At the Gates and Morbid Angel in March. Back in Scandinavia, Dissection played at the Rockefeller in Oslo together with Darkthrone and Satyricon, marking the start of a co-headlining European tour. In April, in connection with the co-headlining European tour, Dissection released the Where Dead Angels Lie MCD, which contained the title track’s studio and demo version as well as other demo recordings and two cover songs. In 1997, Dissection played the Gods of Darkness tour together with Cradle of Filth, In Flames and Dimmu Borgir. Dissection’s and Dimmu Borgir’s show at the Live Music Hall in Cologne, Germany, on 31 March 1997, was recorded and released by Nuclear Blast on the live split video cassette Live & Plugged Vol. II. Dissection’s World Tour of the Light's Bane ended with an appearance at the Wacken Open Air festival, which was recorded and released on the Live Legacy album, and the Nuclear Blast festivals. Although ""[t]he first era of DISSECTION was now at its peak"" and ""the situation, at least on the surface, seemed to be stable and prosperous with the band's success peaking, personal differences prevailed"". This resulted in Palmdahl leaving the band and being replaced by Jon Nödtveidt's brother Emil Nödtveidt for the summer festivals. After the summer Norman ""suddenly 'disappeared' for several months without notice, with Tobias covering up for him claiming to know nothing (however remaining in close contact with Johan throughout this period). The background of this 'disappearance' being that Johan had turned his back on and betrayed the MLO, fearing their retribution."" As Nödtveidt was a member of MLO, Norman had also left Dissection behind, Nödtveidt being the only member left in the band. He recruited a new line-up and booked the Studio Fredman for the supposed recording of the third studio album.
Dominion III is an Austrian industrial music band created in 1998.
Eisregen is a German death metal and dark metal band which formed in 1995. The members are from Tambach-Dietharz, a village in Thuringia.
Enslavement of Beauty is a symphonic black metal band from Norway. Enslavement of Beauty was formed in January 1995 by Ole Alexander Myrholt (vocals & lyrics) and Tony Eugene Tunheim (guitars & composing). The band spent the subsequent years composing and recording material and thereby developed their expression. In the summer of 1998, Enslavement of Beauty recorded the demo CD ""Devilry & Temptation"" which gained them a deal with Head Not Found/Voices of Wonder. This resulted in the 1999 release ""Traces O' Red"" which received very positive response. In November 2000, they recorded their second album, ""Megalomania"", accompanied by drummer Asgeir Mickelson (Borknagar/Spiral Architect) and bass player Hans-Aage Holmen. In 2007 the third album, ""Mere Contemplations"" has been released with the I.N.R.I. Unlimited label. Lyrically, Enslavement of Beauty is highly influenced by the works of William Shakespeare and Marquis de Sade.
Ewigkeit is the experimental extreme music project, formed in 1995 by James Fogarty (aka Mr. Fog). On 28 March 2007, Fogarty announced the end of the project on Blabbermouth, the Death To Music website and also on Myspace.
Falkenbach is a viking metal group from Germany that is signed to Prophecy Productions. The name means ""Falconbrook"" in German. The one permanent member is Vratyas Vakyas (real name Markus Tümmers). They are one of the very first Viking metal bands, starting in 1989, with their first release that same year.
Forefather is a pagan metal band from Surrey, England. There is debate on some sites as to which subgenre or subgenres of metal the band belongs while the band itself describes its music as ""Anglo-Saxon Metal"" due to its Anglo-Saxon themed lyrical content, and in likelihood as a more appropriate alternative for the ""Viking Metal"" term. Since their inception in 1997 the band has released six studio albums.
Goatwhore is an American extreme metal band formed in 1997 in New Orleans, Louisiana, United States.
Graveland are a Polish black metal band which was formed in 1992 by Rob Darken (born Robert Fudali). The lyrics of Graveland are strongly Viking metal—inspired by nature, darkness, battles/war, Paganism, Celtic beliefs, Heathenism, Norse mythology, and Slavic mythology.
Marduk is a black metal band from Norrköping, Sweden. The band formed in 1990 and released their first album in 1992. Their name is derived from the Babylonian god Marduk, patron deity of Babylon.
Nargaroth is a German black metal band led by René ""Ash"" Wagner, formerly known as “Kanwulf”.
Nazxul are an Australian black metal band which formed in 1993. They have issued two studio albums, Totem (March 1995) and Iconoclast (July 2009). Currently the third studio album titled ""Sumus Inferno"" is in the works with the lineup being Adrian Henderson on guitar, Lachlan Mitchell on keyboards and guitar, John McLaughlin on drums and Dalibor Backovic on vocals and bass guitar.
Negură Bunget is a black metal band from Timișoara, Romania whose atmospheric sound incorporates elements of progressive metal and Romanian folk music.
Primordial is an extreme metal band from Skerries, County Dublin, Ireland. It was formed in 1987 by Pól MacAmhlaigh (bass) and Ciarán MacUiliam (guitars). Their sound blends black metal and doom metal with Celtic music.
Rotting Christ is a Greek extreme metal band formed in 1987. They are noted for being one of the first black metal bands within this region, as well as a premier act within the European underground metal scene. They are also responsible for creating the signature Greek black metal sound prevalent in the early 1990s.
Sabbat (サバト Sabato) is a Japanese black metal band, formed in the early 1980s. On some releases, they showcase a more thrash and heavy metal influenced sound.
Sadistik Exekution is a Death/Black metal band from Sydney, Australia. The band formed in 1985 and has existed somewhat sporadically ever since. While last playing live in 1999, the band recorded two more albums and while they have publicly declared to have disbanded several times since, the group reunited for a single performance in November 2009 at the first annual Australian Metal Awards in Sydney.
Sargeist is a Finnish black metal band formed in 1999. Originally created as a solo project by Shatraug of the Finnish black metal act Horna, he was joined by other members since 2000, who were subsequently released from the band. After the demo recording Tyranny Returns (2001), the line-up was augmented by Hoath Torog and Horns, both from the Finnish black metal outfit Behexen, and this line-up has remained stable until 2016. Both musically and lyrically, Sargeist stays close to the roots of Scandinavian ""old school"" black metal. Lyrical subjects thus often deal with Satanism and anti-Christian blasphemy, as well as darkness, depression, misanthropy and hate. The band's name combines the two German words, ""sarg"" (coffin) and ""geist"" (spirit, ghost), and derives from the song ""The Old Coffin Spirit"" by the black metal band Rotting Christ. All members go by pseudonyms.
Sigh (サイ sai) is a Japanese extreme metal band from Tokyo, formed in 1989. They are credited as being one of the first Japanese black metal bands, producing music in the early 1990s when the majority of black metal came from Scandinavia. They gradually shifted from a traditional extreme metal sound to a more experimental, avant-garde style employing symphonic elements.
Soulburn is a black/death metal band from Oldenzaal, Netherlands.
Sunn O))) (pronunciation: /sʌn/ sun) is an American drone metal band from Seattle, Washington that formed in 1998. The band is primarily known for its synthesis of diverse genres including drone, ambient, noise, and extreme metal, and for its notably loud live performances. Supported by a varying cast of collaborators, the band was formed by two core members: Stephen O'Malley (also of Khanate and Burning Witch) and Greg Anderson (of Goatsnake and Engine Kid).
The Kovenant is a Norwegian black metal band from Hamar. The band originally formed as Covenant in 1993, but in 1999 were forced to change their name to The Kovenant due to a dispute with a Swedish electronic band of the same name.
Thorns is a Norwegian black metal band that formed in 1989 and was part of the early Norwegian black metal scene. They made two highly influential demos in the early 1990s, Grymyrk and Trøndertun, but have only released one full-length album.
Trollech is a band from Plzeň in the Czech Republic that produces black metal (Viking metal) music. The band was formed by Lord Morbivod and Asura Godwar Gorgon's Ray in 1999 and started performing live but did not release its first album until 2001. This album's genre has been labelled as ""forest pagan black metal"". The lyrics throughout are in Czech and apparently follow set themes revolving around forests, trees, castles, trolls, dwarfs, weather (thunderstorms, rain) and other natural entities in the mystical realm of Trollech, of which the musicians act as guardians. Trollech's music is considered to be old-school pagan metal, especially their earlier albums. Their simple, yet melodic music provides support to the lyrics, the main quality of the band. Trollech uses Czech in a playful way, including frequent usage of archaic-sounding and unusual words.
Ved Buens Ende was a Norwegian avant-garde metal band. Their sound is diverse with quiet instrumental jazz influenced sections and aggressive black metal blast beats and vocals. Ved Buens Ende means ""By the end of the bow"" referring to the mythological rainbow Bifröst.
Vreid is a Norwegian black metal band formed in 2004 after the breakup of Windir following the death of lead singer and founder Valfar. The remaining members along with new guitarist Ese formed Vreid. The band's name is an archaic Norwegian word meaning ""Wrath"".
Bathory was an extreme metal band formed in Vällingby, Sweden, in 1983 named for Hungarian countess Elizabeth Báthory. The band's frontman and main songwriter was Quorthon (Tomas Forsberg). Considered to be one of the most influential acts in heavy metal, Bathory's first four albums are considered to be ""the blueprint for Scandinavian black metal"". The band departed from this style on their fifth album, Hammerheart (1990), which is often cited as the first Viking metal album. Bathory continued in the Viking metal style throughout the 1990s and early 2000s, although the band returned to thrash metal with the albums Requiem (1994) and Octagon (1995). Bathory ended when Quorthon died from heart failure in 2004.
Carpathian Forest is a Norwegian black metal band formed by Nattefrost and Nordavind in 1990, initially under the name Enthrone.
Abbath (stylized as ABBATH) is a black metal band formed in 2015 by former Immortal guitarist and vocalist Abbath Doom Occulta after departing from Immortal earlier in 2015. The band released their first album, Abbath, on January 22, 2016, and played live for the first time at Tuska Open Air 2015.
Aggelos (meaning Messenger) are a Colombian Christian metal band that makes unblack metal, doom metal, gothic metal, death metal, symphonic metal, black metal, and neoclassical metal music. They started making music together in 2002 and have released two studio albums, Mantos Purpúreos (2011) and Silentium (2016), the latter with Rottweiler Records.
De Magia Veterum is an avant-garde metal musical project founded by Dutch multi-instrumentalist and composer Maurice ""Mories"" de Jong in 2003. In contrast to de Jong's other work, the music of De Magia Veterum is decidedly electric guitar-based and heavily indebted to black metal music. Allmusic credited the discography with ""redefining the limits of extremism through pure sonic annihilation.""
Gaahls Wyrd is a Norwegian black metal band based in Norway, formed by the former Gorgoroth and God Seed member Gaahl.
Gnaw Their Tongues is an experimental musical project started by Dutch multi-instrumentalist and composer Maurice de Jong, otherwise known as Mories. It was founded in 2004 and produced a debut album in 2006 titled Spit at Me and Wreak Havoc on My Flesh. The output of Gnaw Their Tongues is extensive, with over thirty releases being attributed to its name. The name of the project is taken from passage 16:10-11 from the Book of Revelation: ""The fifth angel, who poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their tongues for pain, And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.""
Nidingr is a Norwegian black metal band from Borre. Initially started as a solo project of guitarist Morten ""Teloch"" Iversen under the name Audr in 1992, the band is ""known for its efficiently complex songwriting, ravaging, dissonant, with catchy riffs and breakneck tempos.""
Skald in Veum are a Swedish Christian metal band, while they make black metal and unblack metal music, and they started making music together in 2013. They have released one extended play, 1260 Days (2015), with Rottweiler Records and SkyBurnBlack Records.
Thurisaz is a Belgian metal band from Wervik. Their music is a combination of atmospheric death, doom and black metal.
Wolfchant is a band formed in St. Oswald, Germany in August 2003 by Lokhi, Gaahnt, Skaahl, and Norgahd. Wolfchant's lyrics deal with legends and folk tales from Nordic mythology. In August 2005 they signed a record contract with CCP Records. With the first full-length album Bloody Tales of Disgraced Lands (2005) the band gained supra-regional respect. In February 2007 Nattulv became a member of Wolfchant after former bass guitar Gaahnt quit the band for family reasons. Nattulv was replaced by Bahznar, for their album Determined Damnation, which was released in April 2009. The band made a guest appearance in the Aqua Teen Hunger Force episode ""Totem Pole"", which aired in 2012.
Ævangelist are an American death metal/black metal band that integrates avant-garde and experimental elements into their music. The band is primarily composed of Ascaris and Matron Thorn, though additional musicians take on drum and guitar duties for live performances. The band was formed in 2010 by Ascaris and Matron Thorn and they have released four full-length albums and five EPs to date. Their latest album 'Enthrall to the Void of Bliss' was released on October 9, 2015 through 20 Buck Spin. They are due to release a split EP with French avant garde black metal band Blut Aus Nord on June 17, 2016 through Debemur Morti Productions titled 'Codex Obscura Nomina'.
Al-Namrood (Arabic: النمرود‎‎) is a Saudi Arabian black metal band. The name means “Nimrod”, a Babylonian king, and the group chose the name as a form of defiance against religion. The members are anonymous since their identification could lead to punishment from Saudi Arabian authorities. Al-Namrood have released numerous albums and singles since they began in 2008. They have also released two music videos and are currently signed to Shaytan Productions (Canada).
Bosse-de-Nage is an American black metal band, formed in San Francisco, California. The band features four anonymous members. Considered as a part of the blackgaze scene, the band performs an experimental black metal style that draws from post-rock, shoegaze, post-hardcore, screamo, and indie rock, with influences from Slint, Mogwai, and Godspeed You! Black Emperor. Allmusic critic Gregory Heaney wrote that the band ""crafts a sound that's as comfortable expanding outward as it is contracting into a suffocating mass of needling guitars and frantic drumming."" The band's lyrics touch upon various subjects, such as sex, filth, bodies, perversion, and death. Their name is taken from French symbolist Alfred Jarry's book The Exploits and Opinions of Dr. Faustroll, Pataphysician.
Darkestrah, the Kyrgyz Pagan Metal group, was established in Bishkek and their first demo, ""The Black Pagan Act"" was recorded in December 1999. In 2000 December, their second demo called ""Through the Ashes of Shamanic Flames"" got released too, by German ""Curse of KvN Sadistic"". In 2003 February, NCR recorded their first worldwide known album called as ""Sary Oy"". In this album, traditional folk songs with the traditional instruments were combined with metal. It is about a Kyrgyz legend. In 2004 March, ""The Way to Paganism"" was recorded and it was followed by ""Embrace of Memory"" in 2005 October. In 2007 they recorded a new album, ""Epos"" with a new studio called ""Kick the Flame Studio"". The ""Epos"" is almost fully dedicated to Issyk-kul Lake. It is filled with Pagan motives. In 2007, Darkestrah cut its ties with DNR and it signed a contract with American Paragon Records. In 2008 March, they released their new album, ""The Great Silk Road"".
Downfall of Gaia are a German extreme metal band formed in Berlin in 2008 and currently signed to Metal Blade Records. The band is composed of founding members Dominik Goncalves dos Reis (vocals, guitar) and Anton Lisovoj (vocals, bass), as well as drummer Michael Kadnar from New York City and guitarist Marco Mazzola from Hamburg. They have released three studio albums and their next album Atrophy will come out on 11 November 2016.
Ghost Bath is an American black metal band from Minot, North Dakota. They gained notoriety for claiming to be from China and marketing themselves that way.
Grave Declaration is a Christian black metal band that originated in Norway. The band formed in September 2006 as a solo project of Thor Georg Buer, formerly of Antestor. He later on hired other musicians including his former Antestor band mates, Ronny Hansen and Jo Henning Børven.
Kroda (Ukrainian: Крода) is a Ukrainian pagan/NSBM band formed in 2003 in Dnipropetrovsk. The band’s primary lyrical themes are paganism, nature and history. Their sixth full-length album was released on May 1, 2015.
Mindscar is an American heavy metal band from Orlando, Florida, founded in 1998. The band is led by guitarist/vocalist Richie Brown who has played with Trivium and Nader Sadek. Mindscar has toured with acts such as Vader and Vital Remains.
Misery Chastain was a Christian deathcore band, that was formed by Seth Kimbrough, after his former band, Mortal Treason, disbanded. They have toured with bands such as A Plea For Purging, Whitechapel, War of Ages, Mychildren Mybride, and Becoming the Archetype.
Oranssi Pazuzu is a Finnish psychedelic black metal band formed in 2007. The band consists of Juho ""Jun-His"" Vanhanen (vocals, guitar), Korjak (drums), Moit (guitar), Evil (keyboards, percussion) and Ontto (bass guitar). The band takes its name from ""oranssi"", the Finnish word for ""orange"" and Pazuzu, a wind demon from Babylonian mythology. The band recorded their debut album, Muukalainen Puhuu in 2008 in Korjak's family cabin. It was released via Violent Journey Records in 2009 and followed in 2010 by a split LP with Candy Cane. Their second full-length album, Kosmonument, was released in 2011 through Spinefarm. In 2013, Svart issued the follow-up, Valonielu which was produced and engineered by London-based producer Jaime Gomez Arellano. The band's latest album, Värähtelijä, was released in 2016 and received positive reviews from music outlets such as AllMusic, Pitchfork and Spin. AllMusic's James Christopher Monger described the band's music as a combination of black metal, psychedelic rock, space rock, and progressive metal.
Vattnet Viskar is an American post-metal band from New Hampshire that have released 2 full-length albums and a self-titled EP. They are currently signed to Century Media Records.
Wheelfall is a French metal band which tends to Avant-garde. They formed in 2009 as a sludge and stoner doom band, but their sound progressed towards a post metal style, that also included strong influences from industrial rock, dark ambient, progressive metal and black metal. Thus, there is a real divide between the first period of the band, extending from 2009 to 2012, and the second period beginning from the album Glasrew Point in 2015 after a hiatus of nearly two year. The band is known for its concept albums, combining music, storytelling, literature and visuals. Wheelfall follows the concept of Gesamtkunstwerk  through their records, to broach themes such as ""the survival, the relation with technology and mass communication, the madness and loss of identity and ideals""  and skepticism, which is a very recurrent doctrine in the concepts of the band.
Azrael is a black metal band from Minnesota, formed by Lord Samaiza and Algol in 1999. In 2000, their first demo tape, Virulent Darkness, was released by the band. In 2001, their second demo tape Unto Death was self-released. In early 2002 Azrael released the extremely limited rehearsal demo consisting of improvised ambient/noise experimentation Noise. In late 2002, ""Obdurate"" was released on Desastrious Records. In 2003, ""Into Shadows Act 1: Denial"" was released on Moribund Records. ""Into Shadows Act ll: Through Horned Shadows Glimpse"" was released in 2004 on Moribund Records. Azrael contributed the exclusive track ""Illumination"" to the ""Destroyers From the Western Skies compilation CD on Killzone records. In early 2007 Azrael released a double-CD Act III-Self ... Act IV-Goat on Moribund Records. Azrael re-released both the ""Obdurate"" and ""Unto Death"" demos as a single CD through Moribund records in August 2008.
Ildjarn was a black metal project from Norway that formed in 1991. Ildjarn recorded music until 1997 but did not officially end until 2005. The man behind Ildjarn was Vidar Vaaer, although some releases were collaborations with a musician known as Nidhogg. Ildjarn's music was a very simple and lo-fi brand of black metal, with most songs composed of basic drum patterns, a couple of riffs, and unintelligible vocals. The band's style has been compared to hardcore punk in its simplistic ferocity and short song lengths. Two Ildjarn albums were made entirely on a synthesizer. Of all the released music, the only Ildjarn song to have its lyrics published was ""Eksistensens Jeger"", from the self-titled Ildjarn-Nidhogg compilation. In 2006, the band website stated that no more news would be printed, leading to the conclusion that Ildjarn had ended. The title of Ildjarn's 2005 release, Ildjarn is Dead, further supports this conclusion. Part of Vidar Vaaer's motivation for ending Ildjarn was due to his 4-track recorder breaking (the same 4-track recorder used during Emperor's early days as Thou Shalt Suffer). The related band Sort Vokter consisted of Ildjarn, Nidhogg and two other members known as Tvigygre and Heiinghund. They released only one album called Folkloric Necro Metal.
Impending Doom was a German blackened death metal band. The band was formed in 1993 but split-up in 2001. Their song ""Screams of a Raven"" appeared on the compilation album Voices of Death (Part I), produced by Voice of Life Records. Through the band's eight-year career they released three full-length albums, two EPs, three split albums, four demos, and two compilation albums. Much of the band's lyrical content revolved around Satanic themes and imagery.
In Vain is a progressive death metal band from Kristiansand in Norway. Their music can be described as melodic extreme metal, and it is mainly composed by their guitarist Johnar Haaland. The band has released three albums, and toured Europe with Solefald in 2013 and My Silent Wake in 2010. In Vain has also played concerts in Norway. They, for example, played at the Inferno Metal Festival in 2013.
Fleurety is a Norwegian avant-garde metal band. The band was formed in 1991 by Svein Egil Hatlevik and Alexander Nordgaren.
Les Légions Noires (also known as The Black Legions in English, or simply abbreviated to LLN) was a group of French underground black metal musicians and their bands, centered mostly around the city of Brest, in Britanny. The bands involved limited their releases to very small numbers (often just enough to get to the other circle members), and distributed them among friends and close workers.
Mütiilation is a French black metal solo project, consisting of William ""Meyhna'ch"" Roussel. The project started in 1991 and has released six full-length albums and appeared on several EPs and compilations.
Vlad Tepes was a French black metal band which was formed in Brest in 1993. The name originated from the 15th century Wallachian ruler, the inspiration for Bram Stoker's fictional vampire Dracula. The group belongs to the Black Legions. Vorlok Drakksteim also has a side project named Black Murder. He is the composer of that band, while Wlad Drakksteim is the composer for Vlad Tepes. Vlad Tepes were one of the Black Legions bands featured in the magazine The Black Plague - First Chapter (And Maybe Last One) in 1995.
Handful of Hate is an Italian black metal band active from 1993. They released five studio albums, Qliphothic Supremacy, Hierarchy 1999, Vicecrown, Gruesome Splendour and You Will bleed.
(This article is about the German black metal band. For the Swedish band, see Naglfar (band). For the ship from Norse mythology, see Naglfar.) Nagelfar were a German black metal band.
For the Ogham letter, see Sail (letter) Saille is a Belgian black metal band, formed in 2009 by Dries Gaerdelen. The word 'Saille' is derived from the old Irish alphabet Ogham and means willow. Saille consistently incorporates real classical instruments (e.g. cello, violin, cornet, trumpet, euphonium) into their compositions, as well asstrong influences from black metal. Their songs include both black screams and death growls, with every now and then even clean vocals. Lyrically Saille handles ‘the fearful, the uncanny and the weird’. On earlier releases: Death rites and Forces of Nature.Saille has released three studio albums so far.
Setherial is a Swedish black metal band founded in 1993 by guitarists Alastor Mysteriis and Devothan. They play a faster style of black metal like certain popular bands Marduk and Dark Funeral. They have released 6 albums so far, with Ekpyrosis having been released in 2010.
Weltmacht (German for ""World Power"") was an American black metal band formed in DeKalb, Illinois in 1998. Members of the band all went by pseudonyms: ""Lord Imperial"" (Neill Jameson), ""Akhenaten"" (Andrew Harris) and ""Cryptic Winter"" (Duane Timlin). During this period, they also performed and/or recorded with Krieg (Lord Imperial's main outfit). Lyrical themes reveal a fascination with nihilism and war, rather than more common black metal themes such as Satanism, anti-Christian blasphemy and paganism. After the demise of Weltmacht in 2002, Lord Imperial went on to form N.I.L. and Duane Timlin eventually joined Dying Fetus.
Ásmegin is a Norwegian folk/viking metal band formed in 1998. The name comes from Old Norse and means ""By the Might of the Æsir"" or ""By the Might of the Gods"". Ásmegin's lyrics are written in Norwegian as well as some in Old Norse and older Norwegian. Some of the tracks on Hin vordende Sod og Sø are modeled after the Norwegian play Peer Gynt by Henrik Ibsen.Their new studio album, Arv, was released in November 2008.
Abruptum is a black metal and dark ambient solo side-project band from Sweden. It is run by Evil (Morgan Steinmeyer Håkansson) of Marduk, but the band was formed in 1989 by IT (aka Tony Särkkä). All (aka Jim Berger), Ext and Evil joined the band later. IT was one of the leaders of the True Satanist Horde, part of the Swedish Black metal scene. Euronymous, co-founder of Mayhem and founder of Deathlike Silence Productions, described Abruptum as ""the audial essence of pure black evil"".
Isengard was a solo project of Fenriz, famous for being the drummer of Darkthrone, created in 1989. It is rooted on Norwegian black/Viking metal and experimental rock on some tracks, and named after the large fortress Isengard in J. R. R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings book series.
Viking Crown was a side project started by Phil Anselmo in the mid 90's. The first Viking Crown release was an EP recorded in 1994 titled Unorthodox Steps of Ritual which featured Phil, credited as Anton Crowley, on guitar, bass, drums and vocals. The two later Viking Crown releases would feature Necrophagia frontman, Killjoy on vocals and Phil's now ex-wife Opal on keyboards. Killjoy would later go on to describe Viking Crown as 'a selfish band in which we recorded without regard for conventional methods, songwriting, or any goals except to make truly dark depressing, lo-fi black metal that we (the band) liked."" Following an interview in which Philip regarded the project as a joke, there was a fallout between himself and Killjoy that would culminate in Philip leaving all Baphomet Records related projects altogether.
Dæmonarch was a black metal band constituted by 4 of the 5 then-members of the Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell. Only one album was released, named Hermeticum. The album is born from a compilation of poetry written by Fernando Ribeiro between the ages of 14 and 16.
Obscene Eulogy is a death/black metal band from Saint John, New Brunswick, who are most notable for having recorded with Impaled Nazarene's Mika Luttinen on vocals. Their current singer is Tapio Wilska of Finntroll.
Enthroned is a black metal band formed in Charleroi in 1993 by Cernunnos. He soon recruited guitarist Tsebaoth and a vocalist from grindcore/black metal band Hecate who stayed until the end of December 1993. Then bassist/vocalist Sabathan joined. The band released a five-track demo tape in mid-1994 which brought them to the attention of several independent labels. A 7-inch split EP with Ancient Rites was then released by the underground label Afterdark Records. After the label's demise, Evil Alliance Records (a sub-label of Osmose Productions) released Enthroned's first full-length release, Prophecies of Pagan Fire. Shortly thereafter, the band enlisted second guitarist Nornagest. Eventually, Tseboath was replaced by Nebiros. In 1996, along with Ancient Rites and Bewitched, Enthroned began an extensive tour of Europe. In April 1997, as Enthroned was to begin recording Towards the Skullthrone of Satan, Cernunnos hanged himself. Enthroned recorded the album with a session drummer in honor of Cernunnos and performed at the Dragons Blaze festival with newly acquired drummer Namroth Blackthorn. In April 1998, the band toured the European continent with Dark Funeral and also released the mini CD Regie Axese, which was dedicated to their former drummer Cernunnos. Later that year, they toured again with labelmates Hecate Enthroned and Usurper. At the close of 1998, the band entered Abyss Studios (Sweden) to record The Apocalypse Manifesto. The band's third album was released in May 1999 and dealt with the biblical concept of the Apocalypse as interpreted by a Norse mythological perspective. Enthroned rounded off the 20th Century on tour with Marduk and continued to tour in Europe. In 2000, the band parted ways with Nebiros and recruited Nerath Daemon as their new guitarist, went on a German mini tour followed by several other European shows and recorded Armoured Bestial Hell at Real Sound Studio (Germany). This fourth album was released in April 2001. Namroth Blackthorn was replaced by Alsvid from the French black metal band Seth. Enthroned continued to play many live gigs in and around Europe, as well as in the US. In early 2002, Enthroned signed to Napalm Records releasing their fifth full-length recording, Carnage in Worlds Beyond, later that year. In June 2003, Nguaroth (guitars) and Glaurung (drums) joined Enthroned, which played a South American tour and released their sixth album, XES Haereticum. In 2005, Enthroned released their first official live album, Black Goat Ritual, recorded during their tour of Brazil. Enthroned parted ways with longtime vocalist Sabathan, at which time Nornagest took over the vocals and Phorgath joined the band on bass. In June 2007, Enthroned recorded their seventh album Tetra Karcist, seeing the return of old drummer Alsvid for the studio sessions. Ahephahim joined as the new official drummer in June 2007 and Enthroned signed with Regain Records in January 2008. At this time, some members of the band opened a recording studio, Blackout Multimedia. In the meantime, Ahephaim and Nguaroth left the band due to lack of time and were replaced by ex-Gorgoroth drummer Garghuf. Nerath Daemon took back the position he left five years ago in Enthroned, changing his name to Neraath. Enthroned's eight album, Pentagrammaton, was released on 22 March 2010. Since then, Nornagest has given up playing guitar in live performances, due to chronic tendonitis in his wrist, and has instead become the band's frontman. Former members Lord Sabathan and Nguaroth joined the band for a one-off live performance in 2010 as an act of reconciliation. In September 2011, Enthroned announce that their collaboration with Regain Records has ended while the band was busy recording their ninth studio album.
Striborg is a black metal / ambient project of Australian musician Russell Menzies. The project first began in 1994 under the name Kathaaria and during this time the stage name ""Vvelkaarn"" was used. The name Kathaaria was adapted from a Darkthrone song titled ""Kathaarian Life Code"". Three full-length albums were released as Kathaaria; one each year from 1995 to 1997. Following the release of the third album, Menzies grew dissatisfied with the direction of the project and the first album under the name ""Striborg"" was released later that year. With this change, he also adopted the new stage name ""Sin Nanna"". Menzies' lyrics reveal a fascination with forests, darkness, night, misanthropy and death. The names ""Striborg"" and ""Sin Nanna"" are the names of a Slavonic wind god (of which the correct spelling is ""Stribog"") and Mesopotamian moon god, respectively.
Dispirit is an American black metal band from Oakland, California.
Goatmoon is a Finnish one-man black metal band, founded in 2002 in Helsinki, Finland. Goatmoon recorded six demos 2002-2005. In December 2004 Goatmoon gave out its first album through Werewolf Records.
Death Requisite is a Heavy Metal band from Sarasota, Florida. The band describes their style as ""Blackened Symphonic Melodic Technical Death Metal"" or simply ""Extreme Hybrid Metal"". The band has played with Living Sacrifice, Extol, Zao, Norma Jean, and Sleeping Giant. The band is signed to Rottweiler Records.
Cain is an Italian black/thrash metal band formed and based in Rome. It is one of former Theatres des Vampires vocalist Alessandro Nunziati's many musical side projects. Cain's lyrics are written mostly in Italian and Latin, and deal with the history/mythology of the Roman Empire. They self-describe their musical style as ""Praetorian black metal"". The band was formed in 2005 by Nunziati (who left Theatres des Vampires the year prior) and two members of his backing live band (S.K. and Nighthorn). In the same year, they released a two-track demo tape, Dioscuri Aurea Sæcula. In 2007, their first studio album, Triumvira, was released through Vampyria Records. It was well received by the critics; Italian webzine TrueMetal.it awarded it a 79 out of 100. However, the band entered a long hiatus after the album's release, and were allegedly looking for a new record label during this period. On 1 December 2014, Nunziati announced on his official Facebook page that Cain would be returning to active after a 7-year hiatus, and on 4 December, he stated that Francesco Bucci, famous for being the bassist of symphonic black metal band Stormlord, would be joining Cain. Since then, however, no further announcements were made.
Revenge is a Canadian war metal band formed in 2000 by James Read following the collapse of his previous outfit Conqueror. Revenge's chaotic black metal sound represents a direct continuation of Read's previous band's direction. They have to date released five full-length albums.
Enslaved is a Norwegian extreme metal band formed in Haugesund in June 1991. They are currently based in Bergen, Norway.
Kat is a Polish heavy metal band formed in 1979 in Katowice, Poland. They have been accused, mainly by the Polish media, of promoting Satanism. In Polish ""kat"" means executioner. KAT is one of the most important bands in Polish heavy metal overall, and is also mentioned as one of the main precursors of thrash and even black metal genres in this country. KAT's most famous album is Oddech wymarłych światów (The Breath of Extinct Worlds), considered an opus of Polish heavy metal. The band is best known for tracks ""Czas zemsty"" (Time of revenge), ""Łza dla cieniów minionych"" (A tear for the shadows gone), ""Wyrocznia"" (Oracle) and ""Noce Szatana "" (The nights of Satan).
Quintessence is a French black metal band founded in 2005 in Poitiers, France.
Ragnarok is a Norwegian black metal band. The band was formed in Sarpsborg, Norway in 1994 by Jerv and Jontho, after they left Thoth, their previous band. Lyrical themes include Norse Mythology, Vikings, War, and Apocalypse. The band's name comes from the Old Norse word Ragnarök, the prophesied last battle between the Norse gods and the giants. They are ""one of the most extreme black metal bands in Norway"", making heavy use of make-up and special effects.
Thou is an American sludge metal band formed in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in 2005. The current line-up of the band consists of Bryan Funck (vocals), Andy Gibbs (guitar), Matthew Thudium (guitar), Mitch Wells (bass) and Josh Nee (drums).
Total War (formerly known as War) was a Swedish black metal band, formed by Tony ""IT"" Särkkä of Abruptum, David ""Blackmoon"" Parland of Dark Funeral and Peter Tägtgren of Hypocrisy.
Metanoia was a Christian metal band that originated from Townsville, Queensland, Australia. The band formed in 1990 but disbanded in 1999-2000. The band started as a vision of Guitarist Steve Bennet's. The main members of the band consisted of husband and wife Steve (Guitars) and Lisa Bennet (Bass) and vocalist/later to be son-in-law, Yowie Smith.
Oathbreaker is a Belgian band from Ghent, East Flanders, formed in 2008 and currently signed to Deathwish Inc. The band consists of guitarist Lennart Bossu, bassist Gilles Demolder, drummer OJ (who replaced founding member Ivo Debrabandere in 2016) and vocalist Caro Tanghe, the only female in the band, who performs both screamed and sung vocals. They are a part of Amenra's Church of Ra collective. Oathbreaker have released one EP and three studio albums to date; their latest album Rheia was released through Deathwish on September 30, 2016 to critical acclaim.
Terzij de Horde is a black metal band with dark vitalism as central theme, from Utrecht, NL, formed in 2010. They are known for taking their inspiration from mostly literary and academic sources and intense live performances.Terzij de Horde is old Dutch for “set apart from the horde”. It is a line from the poem “Einde” (ending) by legendary Dutch poet Hendrik Marsman. Marsman is an inspiration to the band, as are many other authors and philosophers in the same dark, vitalistic vein.
Deafheaven is an American metal band formed in 2010. Originally based in San Francisco, the group began as a two-piece with singer George Clarke and guitarist Kerry McCoy, who recorded and self-released a demo album together. Following its release, Deafheaven recruited three new members and began to tour. Before the end of 2010, the band signed to Deathwish Inc. and later released their debut album Roads to Judah, in April 2011. A follow-up album, Sunbather, was released in 2013 to wide critical acclaim, becoming one of the most praised albums of the year in the United States. In 2015 the band released their third album, New Bermuda. Deafheaven's musical style has been described by Rolling Stone as a ""boundary-pushing blend of black metal, shoegaze and post-rock"". McCoy has cited various other influences on the band's sound, including alternative rock and early thrash metal, and said they do not consider themselves a black metal band, as although influenced by the genre, they do not have ""the ethos, the aesthetic or really the sound of one"".
Ayat are a black metal band from Lebanon.
Azarath is a Polish death metal band from Tczew, formed in 1998.
Cultus Sabbati was an anonymous ritual noise music trio formed in 2006. The three members, whose identities are unknown even to their labels, began making music as a form of ritual magick after meeting through their other projects. Their music has been called black metal, power electronics, ""occult dub"", dark ambient and they themselves refer to their music as ""witchnoise"". The band announced their dissolution on their Facebook in 2013. In May 2014 the former members of Cultus Sabbati announced the formation of the group HK8 (pronounced hek ate) and the release of their first album on June 21.
Djerv is a Norwegian band, whose music is a mix of rock, heavy metal and black metal. The band was formed in early 2010 after the break-up of Animal Alpha and Stonegard. Kjølsrud had previously belonged to the former and Gjerde to the latter. In 2013 the lead singer Agnete recorded the song ""Get Jinxed"" with the American games developers Riot Games for their game League of Legends. Kjølsrud and Gjerde also play live with Wardruna, Kårstad plays with God Seed.
Dorso is a heavy metal band from Chile. While initially a speed metal band, its musical style has been variously described as progressive metal, grindcore and jazz. Common themes in band's music are horror film creatures, hyperbolic sexual fetishes and Chilean myths. Its frontman, Rodrigo Cuadra, became a TV presenter in the 1990s.
Finsterforst is a German folk-metal band from Schwarzwald, Baden-Württemberg, whose lyrical themes deal with nature, German myths, and fantasy worlds. Formed in 2004, the group has released three full-length studio albums, one extended play and one compilation album. Finsterforst means ""dark forest"" and it is a reference to ""Schwarzwald"" (""black forest""), a wooded mountain range in the band's home state. Besides the usual line-up of instruments used in metal (electric guitars, bass, drums), the band's sound relies heavily on accordion melodies, with the occasional use of instruments, such as the tin whistle and the oboe. The band's genre is often dubbed pagan metal because of its use of harsh vocals. Cryptic Forest is a German black-metal band from Schwarzwald, Baden-Württemberg that is related to Finsterforst. Several band members play in both bands.
Hemoptysis is an American extreme metal band, named after the medical term for the coughing up of blood. Founded in 2007, the band's music is built around a solid core of old-school thrash/death metal. However, they incorporate strong European elements of black metal and melodic death metal, as well as traditional metal. 2011 has proven a productive year for the Hemoptysis, as they have released their full length, debut album, Misanthropic Slaughter, signed a European distribution deal with Rock It Up Records, and appear on Heavy Metal Magazine's Gates Volume 1 – Ascension soundtrack.
Horned Almighty is a Danish Black metal band. The band was formed by S. (formerly Smerte) and Hellpig (formerly Soth). After a year of using programmed drums, Harm was recruited into the band in 2003. Luger and Aries joined in 2005.
Insomnium is a Finnish melodic death metal, progressive metal band from Joensuu, Finland. The sound and lyrical themes of their music portray darkness, sorrow, loss, pain, and nature. Although they are primarily a melodic death metal band, their tracks could be seen as reminiscent of doom metal, progressive metal and black metal.
Kauan is an atmospheric doom metal/post-rock band from Chelyabinsk, Russia formed in 2005. Kauan's name stems from the Finnish language, and many of the band's lyrics are in Finnish.
Khors is a Ukrainian black metal band formed in 2004 in Kharkiv by Khorus, the former bass guitarist of Astrofaes. During the creative activity, the band recorded four full-length albums and two DVDs. The group keeps an active touring and performed with groups like Enslaved, Moonspell, Behemoth, Gorgoroth, Nokturnal Mortum and Temnozor. Reviews and interviews of the group Khors may be found in many magazines and web publishing.
Northern Oak are a folk metal band from Sheffield, England. The band formed in 2006 and their debut album, Tales From Rivelin came out in 2008. The band then released two live studio EPs entitled Into The Attic, 28th July 2009 and Northern Oak, before releasing their second full-length album Monuments in December 2010, to acclaim from a number of underground music publications such as Metal Hammer Magazine, Zero Tolerance Magazine, and Terrorizer Northern Oak use traditional instruments alongside a modern heavy metal instrument setup (electric guitar, bass guitar, drums), with flautist Catie Williams utilising the flute, the alto flute and the recorder in various songs. They also use a keyboard to synthesize other traditional instruments such as harpsichord, church organ, bagpipes and the triangle. The band's name comes from their location (in the North of England) and the English Oak tree, which is symbolic of their appreciation for nature and the English countryside.
Vulcano is an extreme metal band from Santos, São Paulo, Brazil. Founded in 1981, it is one of the first Brazilian heavy metal bands of note; with reference to their influence on the South American black metal scene, Terrorizer reported that ""many believe that Vulcano not only kick-started musical blasphemy in Brazil, but throughout the whole of Latin America"". Vulcano is noted as an influence on Sepultura.
Wigrid is an underground black metal project that was founded by Ulfhednir in 1998. The name is taken from the field Vígríðr, where the battle of Ragnarok will be fought according to the Norse mythos.
Winterfylleth is an English black metal band from Manchester. Since their inception in 2007, the band has released five studio albums and have become a popular act in both the English underground metal scene and the wider international metal arena. Winterfylleth is self-described as ""English heritage black metal"" and is often considered to be musical 'brothers-in-arms' with fellow English black metal band Wodensthrone owing to the common lyrical and aesthetic themes they share. The band takes its name from the Old English name for the month of October.
Year of No Light (abbreviated as YONL) is a French post-metal band from Bordeaux formed in 2001. On their debut 2006 album Nord, the band combined a dark and aggressive sludge metal sound with the psychedelic atmospheres of post-rock and shoegazing. In 2008, they underwent a significant line-up change which established them as an instrumental sextet as their vocalist was replaced by a third guitarist and a second drummer. Thereafter, their 2010 and 2013 albums Ausserwelt and Tocscin further demonstrated black metal, doom metal and drone influences.
Beherit is a black metal band from Finland. The band was formed in 1989 by Nuclear Holocausto (Marko Laiho), Black Jesus (Arjo Wennström) and Sodomatic Slaughter (Jari Pirinen), with the purpose of performing ""the most primitive, savage, hell-obsessed black metal imaginable"". ""Beherit"" is the Syriac word for Satan. Through the uncommercial nature of their music, visuals and live performances, the band quickly attracted a cult following. Besides the ""raw"" sound, the band's music is noted for its avant-garde side and emphasis on atmosphere. Beherit are now regarded as a pioneer in their genre. As a full band, Beherit released one full-length album and many demos and compilations of raw and minimalistic black metal. They disbanded soon after the release of the experimental 1993 album Drawing Down the Moon, which is now considered a classic of the genre. Laiho, the group's frontman, continued as a solo project and released two more albums under the band's name, H418ov21.C in 1994 and Electric Doom Synthesis in 1995. These albums are usually categorized as dark ambient. Although they were completely electronic, the albums carried the atmosphere of the band's black metal recordings. Original members Nuclear Holocausto and Sodomatic Slaughter reformed the band in 2008, now a four-piece featuring new members Ancient Corpse Desekrator and Abyss.
Mortuus are a Swedish black/death metal band. Mortuus recorded the 7” Silence Sang the Praise of Death which was released by The Ajna Offensive in 2005. The members “decided to put the project to death after the seven-inch was recorded, but a new desire to express ourselves through this medium grew – and thus we ‘re-formed’ the band (even though it never will be a band in the traditional sense)”, as stated in an interview posted by The Ajna Offensive. The interview was followed by the album De contemplanda morte (De reverencie laboribus ac adorationis), “a concept album dealing with Death ascension (from the deeps of the qliphoth to the very heart of Death)”, which The Ajna Offensive released in 2007.
Golden Dawn is an Austrian band formed by Stefan Traunmüller, originally as a one-man black metal project, in 1992. It eventually attracted the attention of two influential Austrian metallists, Ray Wells of Pazuzu and Martin Schirenc of Pungent Stench and Hollenthon, which led to a compilation appearance and eventually a recording contract with Dark Matter Records. Traunmüller recorded his debut album The Art of Dreaming, while still a one-man band, but with session help from Thomas Tannenberger of Abigor and Martin Schirenc. Dark Matter soon folded, however. It was not until seven years later that the band, now consisting of four members, recorded its next album, Masquerade, with Napalm Records. In January 2012, the new album, Return To Provenance, was released on Non Serviam Records.
I is a Norwegian heavy metal supergroup formed in 2006. The band features Immortal members Abbath and Armagedda, Gorgoroth bassist TC King, and Enslaved's Ice Dale. The band cites Bathory as one of their major influences. The band's debut album, Between Two Worlds, was released on November 3, 2006 in the United Kingdom and November 14, 2006 in the United States through Nuclear Blast Records. Their first and only live show was at The Hole in the Sky Festival in Bergen on August 26, 2006. Currently there are no more scheduled live shows. In 2007 Abbath has stated that he had started working on new songs for the next album, although no further comment has been made since. Given Abbath's formation of the band Abbath in 2015 following his departure from Immortal along with I bassist TC King, it is unlikely that a future I album will emerge. As part of prompting their new project, Abbath covered I's Warriors in October 2015.
Kekal (sometimes stylized as KEKAL) is a heavy metal and electronic music band formed in 1995 in Jakarta, Indonesia. According to AllMusic, Kekal was one of the first heavy metal bands from Indonesia to make international inroads, and according to sociologist of heavy metal, Keith Kahn-Harris, was one of the few extreme metal bands from Southeast Asia to ever make more than a minimal impression on the global scene. Founded by two musicians known simply Yeris and Newbabe, the band underwent some shifts in lineup in its early years, but emerged with a consistent lineup of three key-members, guitarist/vocalist Jeff Arwadi, bassist Azhar Levi Sianturi, and guitarist Leo Setiawan. Frequently labeled as black metal, progressive metal, and avant-garde metal, Kekal plays a very diverse range of music styles within the frame of metal and rock, incorporating many other music genres such as ambient, electronic, jazz fusion, and progressive rock. Over the course of its career, Kekal has transitioned from a heavy metal-based style to a more experimental and electronic sound. Throughout its entire career, the band has released nine full-length studio albums, two EPs, two compilation albums, two demo tapes, a split album with Slechtvalk, and several contributions to various collaborative albums, and in 2004 engaged in a successful European mini-tour. As of 12 August 2009, all key-members have officially left Kekal, but continue to contribute material. Though the band currently has no active members, former members of the band contributed to an eighth studio album entitled 8 which was officially released in 2010, and a ninth studio album entitled Autonomy, released in 2012.
Nocturnal Breed is a Norwegian thrash metal band, formed in Oslo in 1996 by singer/bassist Kenneth Svartalv (S.A. Destroyer) and guitarist Sven Atle Kopperud (Ed Damnator).
Dawn of Relic is a Finnish black metal band.
Folkearth is an international music project created in 2003 by musicians playing folk and viking metal. The name (folk + earth) symbolizes musicians from all over the world playing folk music. So far, a total of eight full-length albums have been released, with the most recent being Minstrels by the River.
Forgotten Tomb is an Italian black metal band, formed in Piacenza in 1999 by Ferdinando ""Herr Morbid"" Marchisio. The lyrical themes of the band's early albums revolve mostly around depression and suicide, while the recent albums' lyrics deal with negativity and nihilism. Forgotten Tomb's first EP Obscura Arcana Mortis (2000), was recorded by Herr Morbid as a solo undertaking in 1999. It was released the following year in CD format through Treblinka Productions and limited to 215 pieces. The band's first full-length album, Songs to Leave, was released in 2002 through Selbstmord Services and was also recorded and produced solely by Herr Morbid. The following album, Springtime Depression (2003) was the final Forgotten Tomb album to only include Herr Morbid on all instruments, it was proceeded with the album Love's Burial Ground in 2004 which was the first Forgotten Tomb album to feature a complete lineup in its recording. Both Springtime Depression and Love's Burial Ground were released through Adipocere Records. In 2006, Forgotten Tomb signed with Avantgarde Music and recorded its fourth full-length, Negative Megalomania. The album was released in January 2007. A compilation album, Vol.5 1999–2009 featuring re-recordings of classic songs and two full covers by Nirvana and Black Flag as well as an intro section to Subway Apathy which is Black Sabbath's self-titled track, was released August 16, 2010 on Avantgarde Music.
Funeral Mist is a Swedish black metal band formed in 1993.
Gallhammer is a Japanese extreme metal group that draws on black metal, doom metal, and crust punk. They formed in Tokyo in 2003, and have released three studios albums. The current group lineup is Vivian Slaughter (vocals, bass guitar) and Lisa Reaper (vocals, drums); the original lineup included Mika Penetrator (vocals, guitar). All of the members are female, which is rare in their genres.
Goatlord was an extreme metal band from Las Vegas, Nevada.
Helrunar is a pagan metal band from Münster, Germany, founded in 2001. They played at the Summer Breeze Open Air in August 2007, and at the pagan metal Ragnarök Festival in 2008.
Kampfar is a black metal band from Fredrikstad, Norway. According to their singer, Dolk, their name is an ancient Norse battle cry which means Odin or Wotan. The music of Kampfar can be described as Black Metal inspired by Norwegian folklore and nature. The band is currently signed to Indie Recordings.
Kult ov Azazel is an American black metal band, briefly known as Azazel.
Lifelover was a Swedish metal band, formed in 2005 by Jonas Bergqvist and Kim Carlsson. The band split-up in September, 2011 after the death of Bergqvist, as he was the lead composer and one of Lifelover's founding members. While widely considered being metal, Lifelover combined several genres into their sound, citing black metal, post-punk, dark ambient, doom metal and gothic rock among other influences. With Lifelover's depressive lyrics, musicianship and atmosphere, the band are credited for being one of the biggest influences on the black metal subgenre depressive suicidal black metal (also known as DSBM).
Lover of Sin is an American Black metal/Deathrock band containing members from Christian Death (Maitri/Valor), Diet of Worms (band) member Juan ""Punchy"" Gonzalez, Tony Norman (live) from Monstrosity & Morbid Angel, Howard Davis (live) from Genitorturers, and guest vocals by Damond Jiniya of Savatage. The band released their self-titled debut in 2003, through Candlelight Records. It was often mistaken for a Christian Death album. Lover of Sin released a new record 6-6-2012 entitled ""Horny Beast."" Maitri, Punchy, and Allister Pike returned for the second release. The record features guest performances by George Kollias, Karl Sanders, Destructhor, Elizabeth Schall, and Ralph Santolla
Magane (凶音) is a Japanese black metal band from Tokyo formed in 1999.
Necromantia is a Greek black metal band that was founded in 1989 in Athens, Greece.
Root are a Czech black metal band.
Secrets of the Moon (SotM) are a black metal band from Osnabrück, Germany, founded in 1995.
Skitliv (Norwegian and Swedish for Crap life) is a Norwegian black-/doom metal band founded in 2005 by former Mayhem vocalist Maniac and Shining vocalist Niklas Kvarforth. Maniac describes the project as ""firmly rooted in black metal"" but much darker and more brooding than anything he has done before.
Sympathy is a blackened death metal band from Canada, formed in 1991. Sympathy got some notable attention in the Benelux, Germany and Switzerland as those are the countries where their previous label Fear Dark is usually marketing its bands. The band is known for its professional musicianship. Sympathy's albums are distributed in the United States, Europe and Canada through Displeased Records, Deadsun Records, Megarock Records, Facedown Records and The Omega Distribution. Their lyrical themes tend to revolve around subjects such as theology, philosophy, and death. They have released three albums, Invocation, Arcane Path and an EP titled Abyssal Throne. On February 19, 2008, the band was signed to Bombworks Records. The third album titled Anagogic Tyranny was released on November 11, 2008.
Thou Art Lord are an Athens-based black metal band, formed in 1993. Over the years, the line-up has consisted of former or current members of Greek extreme metal bands Rotting Christ, Necromantia and Septic Flesh. The band's first release was an EP/split with veteran Belgian black metal group Ancient Rites, an effort which would give the group heavy exposure and lead to a record contract with Unisound. They would release their debut full-length album Eosforos the following year, in 1994. Their second release, Apollyon, would be distributed two years later, followed by departure from Unisound and a 6-year hiatus. The direction of the band is different from the members' main projects, which have used unpredictable streaks of atmosphere, melodicism and experimentation. On the contrary, Thou Art Lord's musical approach is raw, unrelenting death/black metal, with lyrical themes of ""apocryphal worshipism"" and ""Dionysian-influenced satanic philosophy"". They reconvened in 2002 and released DV8. Their third LP, Orgia Daemonicum, was released in 2005 through the Greek record Label Black Lotus Records. In 2012, the original members, alongside El (Soulskinner) and J. Maelstrom (Ravencult), recorded and released a new song, Three-Headed Hydra. In May, 2013 the band, with their new line-up, released their latest album, The Regal Pulse of Lucifer. Thou Art Lord are currently signed to the underground label Nuclear War Now! Productions. Furthermore, the band has announced a collaboration with the Greek label Floga Records to re-release their first albums, Eosforos and Apollyon, on vinyl and CD format
Throes of Dawn is a dark metal band from Finland, formed in 1994 by Henri Koivula (vocals) and Jani Heinola (synth). Throes Of Dawn's Music and lyrics has been known as emotional and progressive dark metal. The band's sound is built on the combination of synths and guitars, laced with clean vocals and additional growling and screaming vocals. The lyrical concept of Throes of Dawn is often poetic, reflecting the deeper and darker aspects of the human psyche; solitude, feelings of loss, and the fears and pains of existence.
Watain are a Swedish black metal band from Uppsala, formed in 1998. The band's name is taken from a recording by the American black metal group Von.
Xasthur /zæstər/ is the acoustic, formerly black metal project of American musician Scott Conner (known by the pseudonym ""Malefic""), formed in 1995. In 2010, Conner announced the end of Xasthur. However, he revived the name in 2015 for his acoustic project.
Aurora Borealis is an American black metal band from Waldorf, Maryland. The band was founded by guitarist Ron Vento and drummer Tony Laureano in 1994. In 1996 they released their first EP, Mansions of Eternity.
Baptism is a black metal band from Finland. The band was formed in 1998 by vocalist/guitarist Lord Sargofagian and drummer Demonium. The summer of that year the band released their first demo, Satanic Rituals, although very few copies were released. Following a two-year hiatus the band released their second demo, Sons of Ruin & Terror, in 2000. Similar to the last demo the release was limited. After the addition of bassist Slaughterer the band released their first full-length album, The Beherial Midnight, on June 12, 2002. 2004 would see three releases, from the band, a split CD with Uncreation's Dawn and the EPs Wisdom & Hate and Black Ceremony. The band released their second full-length album in 2005 entitled Morbid wings of Sathanas. Currently Slaughterer and Demonium have left the band leaving Lord Sargofagian as the only official member.
Furia is a Polish black metal band formed in 2003 in Katowice, with Michał ""Nihil"" Kuźniak on guitar and vocal, Kamil ""Sars"" Staszałek on bass, Przemysław ""Voldtekt"" on guitar and Grzegorz ""Namtar"" Kantor on drums. It is considered one of the most influential black metal groups in Poland. The word ""furia"" means ""fury"" in the Polish language. The musical style of the band appears raw and ""cold"", but the lyrics focus mostly on nihilism and misanthropy in a poetic manner, usually striving from typical paganism or anti-christianity. Some members of Furia play in MasseMord, while the vocalist Nihil - who is also the lyricist - conducts the post-black project Morowe.
Voices is a black metal band from London founded in 2011. Formed by former members of Akercocke, the band has described itself as seeking to produce ""extreme and challenging music.""
Fen is a British black metal/post-rock band formed in 2006 from the Fens of East Anglia signed to the label Code666. Their Myspace page reports that they ""draw the listener into a windswept and desolate landscape, bereft of hope"". In 2006 they recorded the Ancient Sorrow EP (released on both CD and vinyl) and January 2009 saw the release of the first full length album The Malediction Fields under the CODE666 record label. In 2011 they released the second studio album Epoch (also CODE666 records), gaining positive reviews in leading magazines Metal Hammer (8/10) and Terrorizer magazine (7.5/10). The album was launched at the Bull & Gate venue in London with support from the old Corpse Road on 11 February 2011. Fen have played at many festivals and with many other acts, including at the Infernal Damnation Festival, the Damnation Festival 2010 (alongside acts such as Sabbat and Lawnmower Deth) the Aurora Infernalis Festival in 2012 (alongside Primordial) and tours (including international dates) with Negura Bunget, Wodensthrone and Agalloch. Epoch was released in a standard jewel CD case and as a strictly limited artbook edition (limited to 799 copies) with 40 pages of photography from the landscapes that have inspired the music and two bonus tracks (""The Wind Whispers of Loss"" & ""...From the Mists""). A Waning Solace from Epoch featured in Terrorizer magazine's 10 essential anthems (Issue 208). For this album the lineup featured original members The Watcher, Grungyn and Theutus with Æðelwalh previously of Wodensthrone on synths. Prior to Æðelwalh (in 2007) Draugluin had played synths with the band. In 2012 Fen announced that their third album Dustwalker would be released on 21 January 2013 via Code 666 records, a launch show would follow in Camden on 15 February. The lineup for this record would be a three piece featuring the Watcher, Grungyn and new drummer Derwydd. To support the new album Fen announced a 28 date European tour alongside Agalloch.
Impaled Nazarene is a Finnish extreme metal band that started as black metal but have incorporated grindcore elements, and have grown more towards hardcore punk. The band is currently signed to Osmose Productions of France.
Blut Aus Nord (French: [blut o nɔʁ], German: [bluːt aʊs nɔʁt]) is a black metal band from Mondeville, Calvados, France, which has incorporated avant-garde elements in its music.
Embodyment was a Christian metal and rock band band from Arlington, Texas which formed in 1992 and were first known by the name Supplication. The band played shows with touring acts such as, Living Sacrifice, Zao, Training for Utopia, and No Innocent Victim.
Unanimated are a Swedish melodic death metal band. They were founded in 1989 in Stockholm and dissolved in 1996. They have 7 current complete members. Largely inspired by Dismember, they made two melodic death metal albums. In 1993, In the Forest of the Dreaming Dead was released on Pavement Music, a label which has since merged with Crash Music Inc.. In 1995 Ancient God of Evil was released on No Fashion Records, an independent Swedish label. The band also contributed to the 1996 Slayer tribute Slatanic Slaughter II with their cover of ""Dead Skin Mask"". Their music exemplifies the melodic Swedish sound and though primarily death metal, a black metal influence stands out. Former members have gone on to contribute to various other projects, most notably Therion, Entombed, and Dismember. In 2007, they reformed, and in April 2008, signed to Regain Records. The band has released a new album, titled ""In The Light Of Darkness"", in April 2009.
Nifelheim is a Swedish black metal band. The band was formed in 1990 by the twin brothers Erik and Per Gustavsson, under the stage names Tyrant and Hellbutcher and is known for their ""old school"" style of black metal.
Old Funeral were a black/death metal  band from Bergen, Norway. Old Funeral were one of the first bands to form in the Norwegian extreme metal scene, formed in 1988. By 1992, the band had already dissolved. Since the breakup, many members (such as Abbath and Demonaz of Immortal, and Varg Vikernes, in Old Funeral as Kristian Vikernes, of Burzum) are now quite famous as members of the early Norwegian black metal scene. On November 15 2015, Old Funeral reunited to perform at Blekkmetal 2015 in Bergen, Norway.
Psyclon Nine is an American musical group formed in 1999 and originally from San Francisco, California. The band currently resides in Hollywood, California, and is led by vocalist Marshall Goppert under the stage name Nero Bellum. While their early efforts are generally categorized as aggrotech, later releases incorporated a disparate set of musical and aesthetic influences, notably black metal and industrial metal. They belonged to the so-called “second wave” of American harsh EBM, along with bands such as Dawn of Ashes, Die Sektor, and Tactical Sekt. The group went on their first hiatus at the end of 2010 due to Bellum’s opiate addiction, but returned to the stage in October 2011 for a performance in New York and released their last album Order of the Shadow: Act 1 in 2013. After Rotny Ford and Jon Siren quit the band in March 2014, Nero Bellum stated on his personal Facebook page that he wanted to perform one last series of concerts before putting an end to the band. Live band members Dorian Starchild (guitar), Brent Ashley (bass), and Kriz Dk (drums) joined Psyclon Nine for their final performances. A remix for the band Limnus entitled The Devils Are Inside the Walls (Psyclon Nine remix) was released in August 2014, followed by a second hiatus that lasted 8 months. On April 13, 2015, Psyclon Nine created a new official Facebook page and announced a live performance at the L.A. Dark United Underground in Los Angeles, CA on May 2, 2015. The reformed lineup featured Nero Bellum (vocals), Dorian Starchild (guitars), Ashes (guitars), and Raanen Bozzio (drums). They went on to do a few more shows, resulting in Psyclon Nine returning as a live band. Raanen Bozzio was subsequently replaced by Anthem on electronic drums.
Tha-Norr were a German black metal band from Lower Saxony.
Morbid was a Swedish death metal band from Stockholm, Sweden, that formed in 1986.
Peste Noire, taking their name from the Black Plague, is a black metal band from La Chaise-Dieu, France. It was formed by La sale Famine de Valfunde in 2000. Their music utilises standard black metal elements mixed with more traditional gallic instrumentation. The band is sometimes referred to as P.N. or K.P.N (Kommando Peste Noire). According to Famine, they play ""National Satanist Black Metal"".
Raise Hell is a thrash metal band from Stockholm, Sweden. The group changed names several times in their early history; their first demo, 1997's Nailed, was released under the name In Cold Blood, a name they abandoned for Raise Hell after signing with Nuclear Blast--which they did while still in their teens. After the album's release the group toured Europe with Dismember, Children of Bodom, and others. Their second album, Not Dead Yet, was released in 1999 and produced by Anders Fridén (of In Flames), and was followed by a tour with Destruction. After further touring and appearances at the Wacken Open Air Festival, the group returned to the studio in 2002 for Wicked Is My Game. Guitarist Jonas von Wowern(Nilsson) did the vocals for the first three albums. In 2002 Jimmy Fjällendahl joined the band as vocalist, so Jonas could focus on playing guitar. The group signed with Black Lodge Records in 2004; City of the Damned followed in 2006, and another tour of Europe with Necrophobic and Origin Blood followed later that year.
Fimbulwinter was a black metal band that was part of the early Norwegian black metal scene. It formed in Oslo during 1992 and released two demos that year. In 1994 it released its only album, Servants of Sorcery. Featuring a cover of Celtic Frost's ""Morbid Tales"", it was the first release by newly formed Hot Records. The band broke up shortly after. Guitarist Shagrath joined Dimmu Borgir and bassist Skoll joined Ulver. The band is named after Fimbulvetr (or Fimbulvinter), an event in Norse mythology.
In Battle is an extreme metal band from Sundsvall, Sweden. The main lyrical themes of the band focus on Norse mythology and war.
Twin Obscenity is a Norwegian death/black metal band. They borrowed their name from Zhar and Lloigor, collectively known as the Twin Obscenities, in the Cthulhu Mythos.
Satanized is a Turkish black metal band that formed in 2005. Their music and imagery has certain anti-religious themes. The band's last member was Angramainyu
Svartidauði are an Icelandic black metal band from Kópavogur, Reykjavík that formed in 2002.
Acheron is an American death/black metal band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that was formed by Vincent Crowley in 1988.
Ancient Rites is a Belgian black metal band formed in 1988. Initially, the lineup consisted of guitar players Johan and Phillip, drummer Stefan, and Gunther Theys on bass and vocals. In 1990 the Dark Ritual demo was released in the underground scene, getting worldwide attention just as black metal was gaining importance in the metal scene. Soon after the release of this demo Phillip died in a car crash and not long after, Stefan committed suicide. However painful this episode was to the band, they decided to continue and Stefan's position was taken by his drum roadie Walter Van Cortenberg. As Johan then decided to leave the music scene, the band found replacements for both him and Phillip in guitar players Pascal and Bart Vandereycken. This line-up would go on to release the Evil Prevails EP and several others through various record labels . Pascal was eventually fired for lack of dedication due to his obligations to the Belgian Navy, which reduced the band to a trio. In 1994 their first full-length album was released entitled The Diabolic Serenades. This line-up would also record the band's second album Blasfemia Eternal before in May 1996, just after its release, Bart left the band. Flemish and non-Flemish musicians stepped in to help out the band on several tours in support of the album, which eventually led the once strongly Flemish rooted band to become an international act with the addition of Dutch guitar player Erik Sprooten (ex-Inquisitor) later that same year and Finnish guitar player Jan ""Örkki"" Yrlund (ex-Lacrimosa) in mid-1997. Shortly after the release of their third album Fatherland a keyboard player was found in Domingo Smets (ex-Agathocles). This line-up would record Dim Carcosa, before Smets left the band in 2002 and a replacement was found in Davy Wouters (ex-Oblivion, Danse Macabre). This line-up can be seen on the live album/DVD And The Hordes Stood As One. While on tour in support of the live album in May 2003, the band fired guitar player Jan Yrlund and brought back Bart in his stead. In December 2004, the line-up was further extended with the return of former members Domingo Smets, who took over as bass player since Günther wanted to focus on singing, and Raf Jansen—who had filled Bart's position for several months in 1996-1997—as third guitar player. Most of 2005 was spent writing songs for the new album Rubicon, which was released on May 15, 2006. Over the years, Ancient Rites have played with bands like Deicide, Motörhead, Judas Priest, Cradle of Filth, Metallica, Dissection, Morbid Angel, Stormtroopers of Death, Mercyful Fate, Impaled Nazarene, Manowar, Sepultura, Malevolent Creation, Rotting Christ and Slayer. The band has been accused of being right-wing/nationalist, which the band itself denies, even though Gunther Theys also plays in the Oi! band Lion's Pride, which has often played together with various White Power bands. The split-DVD with Dutch White Power band Brigade M was indexed by the Federal Department for Media Harmful to Young Persons in July 2009.
Astrofaes is a Ukrainian black metal band from the town of Kharkiv, first coming into being in 1996 as a project between Thurios (Drudkh, Hate Forest, Blood of Kingu) and Khorus (Khors). The band managed a very productive first year, releasing the demo Ad Infinitum, the live album The Attraction: Heavens and Earth and a second demo also titled The Attraction: Heavens and Earth by autumn of 1997. Despite trouble maintaining a record label, the group managed to continue its productivity; by 2005 Those Whose Past Is Immortal marked their eighth release. Astrofaes have employed Saturious and Munruthel, both involved in Lucifugum (as session musicians on some early albums) and Nokturnal Mortum, for keyboards and drums, respectively. Like many other black metal outfits from Ukraine, Astrofaes focus heavily both musically and lyrically on Slavonic pride and folklore and bear an atmospheric element less evident in their Scandinavian counterparts. The band had released recently their last work Idea. Form. Essence... on November 2007.
Behexen is a Finnish black metal band founded in 1994. They adopted a more traditional approach to black metal by incorporating raw characteristics. Their first full-length release was Rituale Satanum, released in 2000 and followed by By the Blessing of Satan in 2004. They have also released a split with Horna (12"" LP limited to 500 and CD 1000 pieces) and a 3-vinyl set ""From the Devil's Chalice"" (limited to 666 copies). The band adopts to a highly Satanic theme in their music and makes it more obvious than many other black metal bands. Behexen toured Europe in 2005, as a support act to Archgoat.
Godkiller is a one-man industrial black metal band from Monaco featuring Duke, started in 1994. The band was signed to Wounded Love Records.
Infernum is a black metal band founded in 1992 in Wrocław, Poland by Grzegorz Jurgielewicz (aka ""Anextiomarus"" aka ""Karcharoth"") and Tom Balrog playing also Oppressor at present Baphomets Throne.
Keep of Kalessin is an extreme metal band from Trondheim, Norway formed in 1993. The group's early lineup consisted of Ghash on vocals, Obsidian C. (the group founder) on guitars and keyboards, Warach on bass, and Vyl on drums. They released two albums under this lineup: Through Times of War in 1997, and Agnen: A Journey Through the Dark in 1999, before splitting up. Obsidian C. then toured with Satyricon, but revived the Keep of Kalessin name for a 2003 EP, Reclaim. In 2006 he reconstituted the group with a new lineup and released a third full-length, Armada). They toured with Behemoth and Dimmu Borgir early in 2008. Their fourth album Kolossus was released on June 6, 2008. They take their name from Ursula K. Le Guin's Earthsea series of books, where Kalessin is the name of the arch-dragon who is the bearer of the Earthsea world. Keep of Kalessin was nominated for a Spellemannprisen in the metal category in 2008.
Ludicra was a metal band from San Francisco. They originally formed in 1998 as a quartet and later expanded to five members. On July 26, 2011, the band announced on their official website that they had disbanded. Ludicra's sound has been described as black metal and avant-garde metal. Influences include bands such as Darkthrone, Gorgoroth, Dødheimsgard, and Bethlehem, and genres like thrash metal, doom metal, punk, and folk. The group included current and former members of other San Francisco-based bands, including Impaled, Hammers of Misfortune, Tallow, Missile Command, Ominum, and punk band Hickey. They shared the stage with the death metal band Impaled, the post-hardcore/noise rock outfit Total Shutdown, the instrumental math metal band the Fucking Champs, and the black metal band Krallice.
Solefald is a Norwegian avant-garde metal/black metal band that was formed by members Lars Are ""Lazare"" Nedland and Cornelius Jakhelln in August 1995, with Lars singing and playing keyboard/synthesizer/piano and drums, and Cornelius singing and playing guitar and bass. The meaning of the band's name is best explained in an interview from Century Media Records website. Lazare states ""Solefald is an old Norse word for sunset. We 'stole' it from a painting by the Norwegian artist Theodor Kittelsen. His two paintings 'Soleglad' and 'Solefald' portrays the cycle of being, and we found it to be a very fitting idea for our band."" Cornelius also states ""'Solefald' means literally 'the fall of the sun', or just 'sunset'; the way we spell it is Danish, from the 19th century.""
Kobus! (or K.O.B.U.S!) is an Afrikaans extreme metal band formed in 2000 by ex-Springbok Nude Girls guitarist Theo Crous and ex-Voice of Destruction vocalist Francois Breytenbach Blom. They performed as a duo until 2004 when they were joined by Rob Nel on bass and Paul André Blom on drums. In 2007 Rob Nel was replaced on bass by Pierre Tredoux and in 2008 drummer Paul Andre Blom was replaced by Werner Von Waltsleben. The band has released three albums: The self-titled debut Kobus! in 2002, 100% Skuldgevoelvry' in 2004, and Swaar Metaal in 2007. The first two releases contained an eclectic mix of styles, crossing genres from track to track. The album Swaar Metaal, which won the 'Best Afrikaans Rock Album' award at the 2008 South African Music Awards, is sonically more uniform than its predecessors, an Afrikaans-language Heavy Metal album, regarded as a first in Afrikaans music.
Adorned Brood is a folk black metal band from Neuss, Germany.
Malign is a Swedish black metal band from Stockholm, formed in 1994.
Arthemesia was a Finnish black metal/melodic black metal band active between 1994 and 2010. The band derives their name from Artemisia absinthium, Latin for wormwood, thought to have many spiritual qualities. Their music mainly concerns a projection of the band's philosophy, namely glorification of the occult and Satanism, but also nature and Shamanism. The band was formed in 1994, originally under the name Celestial Agony, by vocalist Valtias Mustatuuli and guitarist Routa, but did not record their first demo until 1998, by which time the band included Jari ""Arbaal"" Mäenpää (guitar), Jukka-Pekka Miettinen (bass), and Oliver Fokin (drums). The band's first album, Devs Iratvs was compiled from several demos they had recorded prior to its release in 2001. A first proper studio album, ShamaNatahs, was released in 2004. Mäenpää left to form a new band named Wintersun.
Aura Noir is a Norwegian black metal thrash metal band from Oslo, Norway. Aura Noir is heavily influenced by early thrash bands such as Voivod, Slayer, Sodom and Kreator, to the latter they have also dedicated some of their songs. The band's main lyrical themes focus on blasphemy, death, and aggression.
Axis of Advance was a Canadian death metal band from Edmonton, Alberta that formed in 1998 and dissolved in 2008. The band was formerly known as Sacramentary Abolishment until drummer Paulus Kressman left the band. Kressman went on to form another death metal band called Rites of Thy Degringolade and currently plays drums in the black metal band Weapon. Axis of Advance consisted of three members: guitarist/vocalist Wör, bassist/vocalist Vermin and drummer J. Read, who is classified as a session member despite his position of being apparently permanent. Vermin also plays session guitars in J. Read's main band Revenge and was involved in Weapon for a short period of time. Vermin and J. Read both play in Blood Revolt along with Primordial's A.A. Nemtheanga.
Oblivion is an American technical death metal band from the Bay Area formed in 2007. They have released one album, one demo and several music videos. Members of Oblivion have previously performed in several notable metal bands such as Antagony, All Shall Perish, Hacksaw to the Throat, Alchemicon, Feast and Fractals. Another notable aspect of Oblivion is the fact that one member has a doctorate degree in music and is a university professor, while another has a doctorate in mathematics. Currently, the band is signed to Unique Leader and will release multiple albums through the label. A reissue of their debut album, ""Called to Rise"", will be released on October 15, 2013.
Crimson Moonlight is a Swedish Christian black metal band. The band was formed in the summer of 1997 with the mere intention of recording a primitive old school black metal demo and playing one show before breaking up. However, the breakup never happened, and they have since recorded two EPs and three full-length albums. They were previously signed to Rivel Records, currently to Endtime Productions. They have toured US twice, and have been featured in two metal documentary films.
Deströyer 666 is a black-death-thrash metal band formed in 1994 by guitarist K. K. Warslut. The group originated in Melbourne, Australia and by 2001 had relocated to Europe.
Drudkh is a Ukrainian black metal band. They were formed by Roman Saenko, prolific metal musician, the leading member of Hate Forest, Dark Ages and Blood of Kingu; Thurios, the leading member of Astrofaes and, with Saenko, a former member of Hate Forest; and Yuriy Synytsky, of Lucifugum (session drummer) and Definition Sane. Their lyrical contents embrace Slavic mythology, seasons and poetry. Many of the band's lyrics are derived from the works of nineteenth- and twentieth-century Ukrainian poets, especially Taras Shevchenko. Drudkh have been particularly secretive throughout the course of their career, even for a black metal band, giving no interviews and not releasing the lyrics to several of their albums. They have also disavowed radical politics. From their conception until 2009, Drudkh did not have any official website, but in May 2009 Season of Mist launched an official Myspace, operated not by bandmates, but by workers of the label.
Dødheimsgard (also known as DHG) is a Norwegian extreme metal band formed in 1994. Dødheimsgard was originally a black metal band, but 1999's 666 International saw them change into an experimental and avant-garde / industrial metal band. In 2000, they shortened their name to DHG. Their name,""Dødheimsgard"" is a contraction of three words: Død which means 'death', heim which means 'home' and gard which means (at least in this context) 'realm'. A natural translation into English would be ""Realm of Death"".
Epoch of Unlight is a melodic death metal band from Memphis, Tennessee. The band formed in 1990, playing under a variety of different names including Enraptured and Requiem until 1994, when they officially settled on Epoch of Unlight.
Hetroertzen is a Black Metal band formed in 1997 by multi-instrumentalist Frater D. The group originated in Puerto Varas, Chile and by 2009 had relocated to Västerås, Sweden.
Månegarm is a Swedish Viking/black metal band from Norrtälje. The band's name is derived from Mánagarmr, a wolf in Norse mythology.
Necrodeath is an Italian black metal band from Liguria. It is one of the first extreme metal bands originating in Italy. They take inspiration from Slayer, Possessed, Kreator, Celtic Frost and Bathory. The band is also renowned for its great live performances, and notably for their ""wall of sound"".
Obtest is an extreme metal band from Vilnius, Lithuania. They started out in 1992 as a brutal death metal act, but soon changed the style to black metal. Their lyrics are related to Lithuanian mythology and are sung in Lithuanian, though a few of the songs on their demos were in English. The band currently refers their music style as ""heathen war heavy metal.""
Siebenbürgen is a melodic black metal band from Stockholm, Sweden, formed in 1994.
Taake (Norwegian pronunciation: [ˈtoːkə]) is a Norwegian black metal band, formed in 1993 in Bergen by Hoest (then-known as Ulvhedin) under the name Thule. ""Taake"" is the old spelling of the Norwegian word ""tåke"", meaning ""fog"".
Weapon was a Canadian black metal / death metal band, formed by frontman Vetis Monarch in early 2003. The band gained notoriety locally and internationally with incidents of violence. Weapon signed with Relapse Records in 2011 and released their label debut, Embers and Revelations, in 2012. Subsequently, Weapon toured North America with Marduk beginning in May 2012. In October 2012, Weapon and an older United Kingdom band of the same name came to a legal agreement that the latter band would add 'UK' to their band name. Weapon state at their official Facebook page that they own the US, Canadian and UK trademarks on the name, leading the UK band to change their moniker. According to frontman Vetis Monarch, Weapon's lawyer Eric Greif worked out their recording deal with Relapse and settled the legal dispute over the band name. The band announced on June 28, 2013 that they had broken up. Since that announcement, Vetis Monarch has said that he has immersed himself in the corporate world and felt that further Weapon albums would only ""be a black/death metal record by the numbers"", which he felt would be stagnation.
Theatres des Vampires is an Italian gothic metal band with strong black metal influences, mostly noted for the predominant theme of vampirism within their lyrics.
Tormentor is a black metal band formed in 1986 in Budapest, Hungary. They recorded their first album, Anno Domini, in 1988, but were unable to release it until the end of communism. The album reached Norway through the tape-trading community. Following the suicide of Per Ohlin, Mayhem invited Attila Csihar from Tormentor to join the band; he was to perform the vocals on De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas. Tormentor split up in 1991. After a long break they reformed and released the more experimental Recipe Ferrum through Avantgarde Music in 2001.
Tsjuder is a Norwegian black metal band founded in 1993.
Verjnuarmu is a heavy metal band from Finland singing in the Savo dialect of the Finnish language. Performing in a dialect is rare in the Finnish heavy metal scene. Sometimes their style is dubbed as ""Savo metal"". According to Viitakemies, one of the guitarists of the band, their greatest influences musically are death metal, traditional heavy metal, and traditional folk music. Their full-length debut album, Muanpiällinen Helevetti, was released in 2006 under Universal Music Finland. In 2008, the band signed to the Finnish metal label Dynamic Arts Records and released their second album, Ruatokansan Uamunkoetto.
Witchfynde are a British heavy metal band, which was one of the forerunners of the new wave of British heavy metal in the late 1970s.
Belenos is a French black metal band from Brittany.
Castevet was an American black metal band formed in 2006 in New York City, New York. The band announced their breakup on July 21, 2014. The last line-up of the band featured Andrew Hock on vocals and guitar, Ian Jacyszyn on drums and Krallice member Nicolas McMaster on bass guitar.
Thantifaxath is a Canadian black metal band based in Toronto, Ontario. The band, which is signed to Dark Descent Records, consists of three anonymous members. The band released their self-titled EP in 2011. The band's debut album, Sacred White Noise, was released on April 15, 2014 via Dark Descent Records. The band premiered the album's opening track, ""The Bright White Nothing at the End of the Tunnel"" via Soundcloud in February 2014, which gained attention from art and music websites such as Vice, BrooklynVegan and Sputnikmusic. The track ""Where I End & the Hemlock Begins"" was also released on Soundcloud. In 2014, the band started touring with New York-based black metal band Castevet in North America. Despite touring, the band maintains its anonymity. The band's music has been described as ""a batch of incendiary, discordant and blistering black metal."" On the band's debut album, Doug Moore of Invisible Oranges wrote: ""Sacred White Noise is both artsy and rooted in black metal, it’s pristinely performed, beautifully recorded, and far more expansive than any typical black metal album."" He also described it as ""a thematically and harmonically frightening"" record, while stating: ""Progressive rock and outré noise run flanking maneuvers around the edges of a truly vicious frontal assault that borders on death metal in gravity.""
Anagnorisis is a black metal band from Louisville, Kentucky. They have released two demos, three full-length albums, and two EPs.
Botanist is a San Francisco black metal band founded by American musician Otrebor, who formerly ran the online music magazine Maelstrom.
Finnr's Cane is an atmospheric black metal band from Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, founded in 2008. The band consists of The Peasant, The Slave, and The Bard, with each self-assigned pseudonym chosen to afford anonymity for the members. Finnr's Cane's debut album, Wanderlust, was originally released in 2010 through Frostscald Records and later re-released by Prophecy Productions in 2011. Their second album, A Portrait Painted by the Sun, was released in 2013 by Prophecy Productions. A unique feature of the music of Finnr's Cane is the minimal use of bass guitar, while including cello and flute arrangements. According to the band members, much of the music of Finnr's Cane is initially created by means of improvisation. While Finnr's cane have existed solely as a studio project since their inception, The Bard has described a willingness to play live if the right opportunity presented itself.
Hellgods is a black metal band from Bandung, Indonesia. They were one of the earliest band to play black metal in the country.
Illidiance is a cyber metal band from Taganrog, Russia. It is a successor of the black metal band S.C.A.R.D. (2000-2004). Founded in 2004 by Dmitry ""Xyrohn"" Shkurin as a black metal band Illidiance released an album and an EP before switching to a more electronically influenced sound with their 2009 EP Synthetic Breed when they abandoned the black metal motives and oriented to the cyber metal genre. The following year the band continued even further in this direction while incorporating lyrical themes such as transhumanism, artificial intelligence and armageddon in their 2010 album Damage Theory. Recently the band had stepped away from the cyber metal genre and is now describing their music as just modern alternative metal while experimenting with new lyrical themes.
Sarke is a metal band from Oslo, Norway, formed in 2008. The band has released four studio albums and is currently signed to Norwegian record label Indie Recordings.
Saturnian Mist is a black metal band that formed in 2006 at Kuopio, Finland by vocalist fra. Zetekh and guitarist fra. Chaoswind. Lyrically the band draws their inspiration from Occult, Mysticism, Philosophy and Satanism.
Surrender Of Divinity is a black metal act from Bangkok, Thailand. The group was formed in 1996, and released 2 full-length albums during the 2000s. Their 2006 album Manifest Blasphemy: The Abortion of the Immaculate Conception was reviewed by Metal Hammer. In January 2014, the band's bassist/vocalist Samon ""Avaejee"" Traisattha, aged 36, was stabbed to death in his own home. It is reported that he was murdered by the band's own fan, ""for tarnishing Satanism"". Samong's wife has confirmed that said fan was indeed visiting their home and having a drink with her husband.
Thulcandra is a black metal band from Munich, Germany. The band's style is described as melodic and inspired by bands such as Dissection.
Xanthochroid is a Cinematic black metal band formed in Lake Forest, California. The band was created around January 2005 and has since taken the metal scene by surprise, gaining international critical acclaim with their first two albums, as well as a growing fan base in the underground music community, with more than 2,600,000 views in their YouTube channel, over 100,000 scrobblings in last fm, and 20,000+ likes on their official Facebook page. The band's current line-up includes founder (and only member remaining from the initial line-up) Sam Meador (keyboards, acoustic guitar, vocals), Matthew Earl (drums and percussion, flute), lead guitarist Brent Vallefuoco, David Bodenhoefer (second guitar) and bassist Bryan Huizenga, who joined the band in 2012, after former bassist William Culver III, who worked as a veterinary assistant, left the band to study abroad and finish college. They have their own studio and produce all their material under their record label Erthe and Axen Records, created to release their music as well as works by Epic Dragon, Empyrean Throne, Godbless Thee Mooseheart, and personal music projects of Xanthochroid band members Matthew Earl and Sam Meador.
Liturgy is an American avant-garde black metal band from Brooklyn, New York. The band features Hunter Hunt-Hendrix (vocals, guitar), Bernard Gann (guitar), Greg Fox (drums) and Tyler Dusenbury (bass). The band describes its style as ""transcendental black metal,"" which is described in a declaration written by Hunt-Hendrix. Hunt-Hendrix cites Swans, Glenn Branca, and Lightning Bolt as influences.
Lord Kaos was an Australian black metal band that formed in Sydney in 1994. For several years the group was the most prominent act of its style in the country with one founding member going on to record and perform with several Norwegian black metal bands including Dimmu Borgir. While Lord Kaos only released one album, the group was a considerable influence on the local heavy metal music scene as not only arguably the first but one of the few bands to record and perform Norwegian-style symphonic black metal.
Svartsyn is a black metal band from Sweden. The band formed in 1991 as Chalice, but changed their name to Svartsyn in 1993. They recorded their first demo in 1994 and their first album in 1998. Draugen, ex-drummer of Dark Funeral, teamed up with original founding member Ornias in 1996 and since then, they are working smoothly together. In 1996 Svartsyn signed to Folter Records and released their debut album The True Legend. In May of the following year, a tour of 9 dates in the Netherlands and Germany with Behemoth and Desaster was made. After this tour, Kolgrim (of Unpure) replaced Surth. In June 1997 Svartsyn released Tormentor 7” EP. In September 1997 and October 1998 Svartsyn recorded their 2nd album entitled Bloodline at Sunlight Studios, which was released as a limited D-LP by End All Life Productions from Italy. In February 2000, Svartsyn recorded their 3rd album …His Majesty at Voisin Studios and they signed to Sound Riot Records for the release of this album. In 2003, Svartsyn signed with Sound Riot Records again for the release of their fourth album Destruction of Man and for the re-print of Bloodline album including the Tormentor 7” EP as bonus track. Destruction of Man was released in the summer 2003 and Bloodline in September 2005. Their latest album is Timeless Reign which has been released through Carnal Records from Sweden.
Tribes of Caïn is a heavy metal band from Switzerland, formed in 1999, with three albums released. They site their music as a mixture of black, death and thrash metal.
Sadistic Intent is a death metal band from Los Angeles, California.
Militia Christi is an Italian gothic rock/dark ambient musical project whose lyrics, sung in Italian and Latin, deal with Mysticism, Gnosticism, Hermetism, Rosicrucianism, Alchemy, Theosophy, Philosophy, Knights Templar and Freemasonry. They seem to have a very strong connection with the Italian extreme gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires. The origin of the band and the real name of its members are still unknown. They have never performed live.
Amesoeurs was a French post-punk/black metal band formed in Bagnols-sur-Cèze, France in Summer 2004 by guitarist/vocalist Neige of Alcest, bassist/singer Audrey Sylvain and guitarist Fursy Teyssier (Phest, Les Discrets) with the purpose of creating a music that reflects the dark side of the industrial era and modern civilization. Neige and Audrey Sylvain are also known for their input as session/live musicians in La sale Famine de Valfunde's band Peste Noire.
Krallice is a black metal band formed by New York City musicians Colin Marston, Mick Barr, Nick McMaster and Lev Weinstein. They play a progressive, highly technical style of black metal, though their latest album also draws heavily on death metal. The band have released five studio albums and two EPs. Their most recent album, Ygg Huur, was released on July 30, 2015. They have been described as ""one of the most interesting, engaging black metal bands to emerge in recent years"" and ""one of the most important bands in modern black metal.""
Menegroth is a black metal band from Switzerland founded in 2001 in Zurich.They play melodic black metal with lyrical influences from the art of Futurism (Marinetti), War, Gnosticism, Alchemy (inspired by Julius Evola) and the 'Style of Fascism' (Armin Mohler). The name comes from J. R. R. Tolkien's The Silmarillion, where Menegroth is a subterranean dwelling place of the Elves. On the album 'Gazourmah', Josef Maria Klumb (Von Thronstahl) speaks words at the song 'Mithras Initiation'.In July 2012 they did release an album about a mix of futurism and alchemy in a coat of Russian communism.
Istapp is a Swedish melodic black metal band from Nattraby in Blekinge, formed in 2000. The band was signed to Metal Blade Records in 2009 and in June 2010 they released their first full-length album Blekinge. To date, Istapp have released two full-length albums, three demos and one compilation CD
Council Of The Fallen is an American death metal band formed in Tampa, Florida. Council Of The Fallen have released two LPs and one EP album.
Hortor is a Mexican extreme unblack metal band originated in Mexico City, Mexico in March 2004. The band's name translated in English means ""Animate"". Members have been involved in multiple projects including Freddy Acosta for his solo project, Impaling Baphomet. On one of their full-length albums, they covered a song by one of their unblack metal influences, Horde. The band has released three studio albums, an EP, a split album and a demo. The band is releasing a new album in 2016.
Immortal Bird is an American blackened death metal band from Chicago, Illinois. The band was formed in 2013 with the intention of being a recording project, but has evolved into an actively touring and collaborative group.
Bahimiron was an American black metal band based in Houston, Texas and Phoenix, Arizona. It was formed by vocalist and guitarist David ""Grimlord"" Herrera in 2001, after leaving the death metal band Imprecation in 1993. Other members of the band included bassist Jenoside and drummer Blaash, who would play in the band from its formation until its dissolution, and second guitarist Luna, who joined Bahimiron in 2013. The band was best knowm for their second album, Southern Nihilizm, released in 2008. After thirteen years of activity, Bahimiron split-up in 2014. Bahimiron's style has been labeled as black metal and war metal. Pitchfork's Brandon Stosuy described their sound as ""Beherit, Absu, and Gorgoroth in a dusty southern bar brawl"". Blabbermouth.net's Scott Alisoglu stated that the band plays ""Texas style of dangerously hot black metal that offer one images of decomposing bodies baking in 105-degree temperatures, no doubt the victims of ritual sacrifice.""
Misþyrming are a black metal band from Reykjavík, Iceland. The band formed in June 2013 and are currently signed to the Norwegian record label Terratur Possessions. They released their debut studio album 'Söngvar elds og óreiðu' on 7 February 2015 to widespread critical acclaim. The band have since toured Europe and the United States, performed at Eistnaflug, and were named an 'artist in residence' at the famous Roadburn Festival in 2016. They were featured in a long piece by The Reykjavík Grapevine about Iceland's black metal scene alongside Svartidauði, Wormlust, and others.
Shadows of Paragon is a Unblack metal band that originated in Sweden in 2001 under the moniker, Allsherjar. The band has played in the Netherlands and Belgium.
The Autumn League is a one-man project that originated in 2012 in Sydney, Australia. The project is signed to Rottweiler Records and SkyBurnsBlack Records.
