Nightwork is the third studio album by the Swedish black metal band Diabolical Masquerade released in 1998 through Avantgarde Music.
Chaos A.D. is the fifth studio album by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura, released on October 19, 1993, by Roadrunner Records. The album saw a stylistic departure from the band's earlier style, by incorporating a new groove metal sound.
Devil's Path is an EP by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was originally released in 1996 by Hot Records. This album was reissued in 1999 along with the Old Man's Child Split EP In the Shades of Life, eventually becoming known as Sons of Satan Gather for Attack.
Kaddish is a 1994 album by Salem. The album was one of the first Israeli extreme metal albums to engage with recent Jewish history and the Holocaust.
Le Secret is an EP by French musician Alcest. It was released in May 2005 through Drakkar Productions. Unlike Alcest's previous release, all of the music on Le Secret is performed by Neige. The lyrics to the track ""Élévation"" come from a poem by Charles Baudelaire.
Megalomania is the second album released by Norwegian black metal band Enslavement of Beauty in 2001. The song ""And to Temptation's Darkness Forever Abide"" was added to the expanded version, where the track order also is different. All music composed by Tony Eugene Tunheim, all lyrics written by Ole Alexander Myrholt.
Octagon is the eighth studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released in October 1995, through Black Mark Production. It continues the retro thrash metal style of the previous album, Requiem. It was reissued in 2003, with the first two tracks combined and ""Winds of Mayhem"" outro added.
Renewal is the sixth album by German thrash metal band Kreator released in 1992. It is their first ""experimental"" album, as in this release Kreator incorporated some industrial music influences in their songwriting. It is also the last album to feature original bassist Rob Fioretti. The song ""Karmic Wheel"" contains audio samples from the suicide of R. Budd Dwyer.
Satyricon is the eighth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It is their first topping VG-lista, the official Norwegian Albums Chart. It was released throughout Europe on 9 September 2013, and released on 17 September 2013 in USA and Canada.
Stronghold is the fourth full-length album by the Austrian black metal band Summoning. This album marked a change in the sound of Summoning as it was much more ""guitar orientated with more compact keyboard-melodies"". ""Where Hope and Daylight Die"" features Tania Borsky, Protector's ex-girlfriend and a former member of Die Verbannten Kinder Evas, on lead vocals. The album's cover was adapted from 'The Bard', an 1817 painting by John Martin. This album is the first by Summoning to feature audio-clips; the clips used on this album were from the movies Braveheart and Legend.
This is a comprehensive discography of Mayhem, a black metal band formed in 1984 in Oslo, Norway. Mayhem has released five studio albums, five live albums, two EPs, five demos and singles, three compilation albums and four video albums.
A Holocaust in Front of God's Eyes is the first EP, and second album overall, by the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was released on Aphelion Productions in 2001.
Aghibasiin-Lessons on How To Defeat Death is the first compilation album, and fifth album overall, by the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was originally released on Shadowface Releases in 2004 and limited to 1000 hand-numbered copies, but was later re-released on Anti-Xtian Terror Records and limited to 300 hand-numbered copies. The re-released version contains two bonus tracks.
Angelus Exuro pro Eternus (grammatically incorrect Latin intended to mean ""Angels Burned for Eternity"") is the fifth studio album by Swedish black metal band Dark Funeral. The album was officially released on November 18, 2009, via Regain Records. It was recorded at The Abyss Studio in Grangärde, Sweden, with engineer and producer Peter Tägtgren, who also produced Dark Funeral's earlier studio albums (with the exception of Attera Totus Sanctus). The record was then mastered by Jonas Kjellgren at the Black Lodge Studios. Angelus Exuro pro Eternus is the last album to feature vocalist Emperor Magus Caligula, the only album to feature bassist B-Force and the first to feature Dominator on drums. Musically, it has been described as the band's most technical and varied album to date, with considerably more progression and innovation while remaining ""true to its roots"". The cover artwork for Angelus Exuro Pro Eternus was created by Daniel ""Morbid"" Valeriani.
Awaken in Oblivion is the second compilation album, and sixth album overall, by the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was released in 2004 on Black Lotus Records. It was limited to 2000 copies.
Diabolicanos – Act III: Armageddon is the second album by the Polish avant-garde black metal band Devilish Impressions. After their full-length debut Plurima Mortis Imago was released, the band attracted significant interest from many record labels and choosing the most favourably looking offer at that time, signed with London-based Conquer Records. The band went through some line-up changes before the album was actually released, taking the band significantly up to the next level. The band recruited a new drummer, Łukasz ""Icanraz"" Sarnacki, known at the time for his work with polish hordes Hermh and Abused Majesty among others. The band also recruited a new guitarist, Armers having Starash take over bass duties. Autumn 2007 saw Devilish Impressions shooting a video clip for the song Har-Magedon, set to promote the album. At the end of the year the band took off on their first ever headlining run across the Eastern European countries, ""Verbum Diaboli Tour"". The success of the album gave Devilish Impressions the opportunity to open shows for titans Behemoth and Suicide Silence on their ""The Apostasy European Tour"", and then embark with Dismember on a tour through the UK, Ireland and Northern Ireland. Meanwhile, the group was invited for selected shows of Wacken Road Show 2008 but due to the above-mentioned tours having been booked earlier, they eventually managed to join the WRS bill, Overkill, Tristania, Samael and Enslaved, for a show in Kiev only. Also, the band joined Hate for their first ever Polish invasion named ""Rebel Angels Tour"", a special show with Satyricon in Ukraine and summer 2008 appearances 2008 that included the Pro Rock Festival while co-headlining with Rage and at Metal Heads Mission Festival with bands like Moonspell, Gorgoroth and Samael to name but a few.
Discipline Manifesto is the fourth full length studio album, and seventh album overall, by the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was released in 2005 on Black Lotus Records.
Eritis sicut Deus; Verbum Diaboli Manet in Aeternum; Vox Vespertilio Act I – Moon Var Dies Irae is the first demo by the Polish avant-garde black metal band Devilish Impressions. This is the first demo they released as a band after the band members joined forces in 2000. The musical arrangements were still of low quality and the vocals are barely hearable on this demo. But the band had a pretty good idea what they were doing and whereto they wanted to evolve as a band. Some of the elements used in this demo can be traced back in their following first and debut album Plurima Mortis Imago. Devilish Impressions is known for their lengthy songs, but the demo is known for having the most lengthy songs of all their work so far.
Kali Yuga Bizarre is the first full length studio album by the Italian black metal band Aborym. It was released in 1999 on Scarlet records. A picture LP was also re-released in 2000 and was limited to 1000 copies. Vocals on this album were performed by original vocalist Yorga SM as well as guest vocalist Attila Csihar.
Köld is the third album by Icelandic post-metal band Sólstafir. It was released on January 21, 2009 through Spikefarm Records. The cover art was done by Guðmundur Óli Pálmason.
Live Inferno is the final release from the band Emperor. It was filmed during the band’s sold out 2005-2007 reunion performances. It was released in Europe on 20 April with several editions available. It is available as a 2CD slipcase with 16pg booklet, a limited edition Digibook featuring 2 CDs & DVD with an enhanced 24pg booklet, a single DVD, and two limited edition double vinyl gatefold sets. The audio portion of the ""Live Inferno"" series features exclusive recordings from the band's headlining performances at Norway's Inferno festival and Germany's Wacken Open Air festival. The video portion, titled ""Live at Wacken Open Air 2006 - A Night Of Emperial Wrath"", has a running time of 70 minutes and includes footage professionally filmed at the Wacken Open Air festival with additional on-stage and exclusive backstage footage filmed and compiled by the band. ""It looks like these releases will be the final nail in the coffin for Emperor,"" says guitarist Samoth. ""They are a testimony of the live reunion that took Emperor to even new heights; unique events like Wacken where Emperor headlined in front of 60,000 people. We had a great run of shows and feel lucky that we were able to come back even bigger and perform songs from our complete catalogue for a lot of dedicated fans old and new. There will be several cool formats and limited editions coming that should be a nice treat for the fans and a worthy representation of the Emperor legacy. Emperor is dead, long live the Emperor!""
River at Dash Scalding is the third full length studio album, fourth album overall, by the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was released on Black Lotus Records in 2003.
Skotos Aenaon  (Ancient Greek for eternal darkness) is the second full length studio album (and third album overall) of the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was released on Black Lotus Records in 2001.
Slaves of the World is the seventh studio album by Norwegian black metal band Old Man's Child. The album was released 18 May 2009 in Europe and 19 May 2009 in North America via Century Media Records. The album was recorded in autumn 2008 at Studio Fredman in Gothenburg, Sweden, with producer Fredrik Nordström. All instruments were recorded by Galder with the exception of drums, which were manned by Peter Wildoer (Darkane).
The Pagan Winter is the first studio recording by Hungarian symphonic black metal band Sear Bliss. In that time founder/bass guitarist András Nagy was only 17 years old. Thanks to this demo Mascot Records from the Netherlands offered a three-album contract and signed the band. Mascot Records re-released The Pagan Winter on CD in 1997 following the success of Sear Bliss debut album Phantoms.
Up from the Ashes is the first full-length studio album by the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was released in 1998 on Black Lotus Records.
Death Metal is a split album by the bands Helloween, Hellhammer, Running Wild and Dark Avenger. It contains the only recorded material of the German band Dark Avenger. The album offers an interesting snapshot of the ebullience and creativity of the Central European metal scene during the end of the early-1980s. At that time Running Wild had yet to develop their ""pirate metal"" schtick and considered themselves a black metal band. Helloween were more of a thrashy speed metal act rather than the melodic power metal vehicle into which they would soon develop. Hellhammer were the darker and heavier band of the foursome and would later be regarded as pioneers and inspiration for generations of European extreme metallers. Running Wild's tracks appear as bonus tracks in their 1995 album Masquerade; Helloween's tracks appear in the second disc of the 2006 re-mastered and expanded edition of their 1985 album Walls of Jericho; and Hellhammer's tracks appear on the 1990 re-issue of their 1984 EP Apocalyptic Raids.
Kiss the Goat is the debut album by Swedish black metal band Lord Belial. It was released in 1995 through No Fashion Records. In April 2014, Greek label Floga Records reissued Kiss The Goat for the first time on LP. This edition is limited to 250 copies black vinyl and 250 copies dark purple with black splatter vinyl; Both colors have slightly revised cover artwork - in the originally intended dark purple rather than the production error pink on the No Fashion pressing - and the new Lord Belial band logo. Floga Records will again reissue it as part of a limited 6LP Lord Belial boxset which is to be released September 2014.
Microcosmos is the second full-length release from Hungarian avant-garde metal group Thy Catafalque. It was also the last to represent the older, raw black metal sound of the band. Their first music video was made for the song ""Paths Untrodden"".
Nightwing is the fifth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at The Abyss between October and November 1997 and released in April 1998 by Osmose Productions. The theme of the album was blood, as the band's following studio albums Panzer Division Marduk would be war, and La Grande Danse Macabre would be death, forming a trilogy of ""Blood, War and Death,"" Marduk's vision of what black metal is. In 2008, Nightwing was re-released with a new mastering, an alternative cover artwork and a live DVD of a show in Rotterdam 1998.
Non Serviam is the second full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ, released in 1994. In Latin, Non serviam translates to ""I will not serve"", and Biblically refers to Satan's refusal to serve God. It also has some different connotations in secular literary works. Frontman Sakis Tolis has the words tattooed on his stomach. After 12 years of discontinued print, the album was re-released by The End Records in 2006. According to their biography, it is also the last album in which the band used a sessional drum machine.
Power From Hell is an EP by Toxic Holocaust.
Steadfast is the fifth studio album by the United Kingdom band Forefather. The album's artwork is done by Martin Hanford. It was released in February 2008.
Apocalyptic Raids is an EP by the Swiss extreme metal band Hellhammer. It was recorded and released in March 1984, and was the band's only commercial release. The record was a major influence on the then-emerging death metal and black metal genres. It has served as an inspiration to such varied and respected bands as Napalm Death and Sepultura, both of whom recorded cover versions of ""Messiah"". Hellhammer would split up only three months after recording this EP, and later regrouped as Celtic Frost. Apocalyptic Raids would be reissued six years later as Apocalyptic Raids 1990 A.D., boasting new artwork and two bonus tracks.
Black Metal Massacre Live is a live album by Finnish black metal band Satanic Warmaster. It was released in April 2007 through Deathrash Armageddon.
Hell Is Empty, and All the Devils Are Here is the fourth album by British extreme metal band Anaal Nathrakh, released on 29 October 2007 by FETO Records. The album title is a quote from the first act of William Shakespeare's The Tempest.
Opferblut is an album by Finnish black metal band Satanic Warmaster. It was released in 2003 through No Colours Records. LP version released on clear vinyl (500 copies) & on black vinyl (300 copies). Picture LP released in 2005, limited to 500 copies.
Strength and Honour is an album by Finnish black metal band Satanic Warmaster. It was released in November 2001 through Northern Heritage. It was reissued twice by Northern Heritage in 2003 and 2004, both pressings limited to 1000 copies. The original LP version comes with a bonus track, officially untitled, alsoreferred to as ""Legion Werewolf"". The keyboard outro to ""Night of Retribution"" was originally intended to be the intro for Satanic Warmaster's unreleased ""Black Metal Kommando"" debut album.
Diadem of 12 Stars is the debut album of the black metal band Wolves in the Throne Room. It was this recording that caught the attention of Southern Lord Records, who subsequently signed the band in late 2006 and re-released the album on vinyl.It was subsequently re-issued in 2016 through the band's own imprint, Artemisia Records. The album was co-produced and engineered by Tim Green, who was also a producer for Weakling; a band which Wolves in the Throne Room have cited as one of their main early influences.
Fire Walk with Us! is the second studio album by the industrial black metal band Aborym. This is Aborym's first album to feature Mayhem vocalist Attila Csihar as a full-time member. Fire Walk with Us! contains a cover of Burzum's Norwegian: “Det som en gang var”, in which bassist Malfeitor Fabban performs vocals.
Two Hunters is the second album by black metal band Wolves in the Throne Room and their debut album on Southern Lord Records. The band made minimal use of any digital effects or manipulation in the recording process. The album's artwork is by Rachel Carns. The vinyl version includes an extended version of ""Cleansing"" (which is about 6 minutes longer) and a previously unreleased track ""To Reveal"". This album was critically acclaimed, putting WITTR on the forefront of the black metal scene. The Daymare Recordings release also contains their 2005 demo on a second disk.
Winternight Tragedies is the sixth full-length album by the Finnish melodic black metal band, Catamenia. It was released on April 25, 2005, through Massacre Records. Fuel for Hatred is a cover of a Satyricon song from their album Volcano.
With No Human Intervention is the third album by industrial / black metal band Aborym. The album's title was coined by former Emperor drummer Bard Eithun, as well as the lyrics for the title track and ""Faustian Spirit of the Earth"". Carpathian Forest vocalist Nattefrost provides backing vocals on various tracks, as well as lead vocals on ""The Alienation of a Blackened Heart"". This is the last Aborym album to feature Attila Csihar as the primary lead vocalist (he returned once more as lead vocalist on the track ""Man Bites God"" on Generator), as he left the band to re-join Mayhem. Guitarist Set Teitan departed after this album in order to join Dissection.
Mantras is the fourth studio album by Czech black metal band Master's Hammer, independently-released on 3 December 2009. It is the band's first album of new material since Šlágry on 1995, and sees them returning to the black metal style of their first two albums, but blending it with the experimental sound demonstrated on Šlágry. It was released both in CD and vinyl format; the vinyl version contains less tracks. The track ""Vrana"" is a tribute to painter Martin Vrana, a long-time friend of Master's Hammer's vocalist Franta Štorm. Vrana illustrated the album's cover art. ""Jáma pekel"" was originally featured on the band's debut album, Ritual..
Restless & Dead is the debut album by Swedish thrash metal band Witchery. Released in 1998 on Necropolis Records, the album features members of the band Satanic Slaughter. The title is a play on the Accept album Restless and Wild.
Witchkrieg is the fifth full-length studio album by Swedish thrash metal band Witchery, released on June 21, 2010 in Europe and June 29, 2010 in North America. This album is their second on Century Media Records. Like their previous album Don't Fear the Reaper, Witchkrieg was also mixed by Tue Madsen at his Antfarm Studios. Witchkrieg also showcases an impressive line-up of guest musicians such as Andy LaRocque from King Diamond, Kerry King from thrash legends Slayer, Hank Shermann of Mercyful Fate, Lee Altus and Gary Holt from Exodus and Jim Durkin from Dark Angel. This is the first Witchery album without longtime vocalist Tony ""Toxine"" Kampner. His replacement is Erik ""Legion"" Hagstedt.
Woods III: The Deepest Roots and Darkest Blues is the second full-length album by Woods of Ypres. It was recorded in 2007 in Toronto, Ontario, and it was the band's last album released before relocating to Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario in 2008. Woods III marked the band's only album to feature bassist/producer Dan Hulse, their last with keyboardist Jessica Rose, and their last album with frontman David Gold on studio drums until Woods 5: Grey Skies & Electric Light in 2012. Four songs from Woods III were later re-issued in the band's 2009 compilation CD Independent Nature 2002-2007. Though not the last release on the label, this album was Woods of Ypres' last full studio release on Krankenhaus Records before it was succeeded by Gold's new independent label Practical Art Records in 2009. Similarly to their previous album, and despite its length, material from Woods III was not commonly heard at the band's post-2007 concerts. Only ""Your Ontario Town is a Burial Ground"" survived into the band's post-2009 setlists (possibly due to Woods of Ypres' shift to a more doom-oriented sound), though ""The Northern Cold"", ""Distractions of Living Alone"", and ""Thrill of the Struggle"" were also played live following the album's release. A music video for ""The Northern Cold"" was released in 2007 featuring the performers on Woods III, along with then-members Shawn Stoneman on guitar & Chris Mezzabotta on drums, neither of which performed on any Woods of Ypres albums.
Šlágry (English title: Schlager) is the third studio album by Czech black metal band Master's Hammer, released in 1995 by a now-defunct subsidiary of Osmose Productions, Kron-H, which specialized itself in more experimental outputs than Osmose itself. Greatly contrasting with the sonority of the band's previous releases, Šlágry sees them ""virtually abandon[ing] the operatic black metal of previous releases in favor of modernist electronic music"", and ""shares publishing credits with Carl Czerny, Otto Katz and Giuseppe Verdi, mixing bits of metal, folk and musique concrète into a style based on the classical avant-garde"", as they put it in the album's liner notes. In fact, ""Hlava modernistova"" is the only black metal-oriented track of the entire album. Other Master's Hammer members Necrocock, Monster, Mirek Valenta and Silenthell are noticeably absent from the album; only vocalist Franta Štorm and keyboardist Vlasta Voral took part in its recording. On the album's liner notes the band also stated that they planned a follow-up to Šlágry, entitled Šlágry II, that would ""rely more on professional opera singers and orchestra players""; however, the band broke up a couple of months after the album came out, and only returned to active in 2009 with the release of Mantras. It is currently unknown if the band still plans to work on Šlágry II.
Ashes Against the Grain is the third full-length album by American metal band Agalloch, released by The End Records four years after the critically acclaimed The Mantle. It has been described as incorporating black metal, folk metal and post-metal.
The discography of Mercyful Fate, a Danish heavy metal band, consists of seven studio releases, three compilations, three singles, and six music videos. Mercyful Fate was formed in 1981 by vocalist King Diamond and guitarist Hank Shermann. After several line-up changes and self-made demos, Mercyful Fate released their self-titled EP in 1982, with the line-up of King Diamond (vocals), Hank Shermann (guitar), Michael Denner (guitar), Timi Hansen (bass) and Kim Ruzz (drums). With this line-up, the group released their debut album, Melissa, on October 30, 1983, through Roadrunner Records. The following year, Mercyful Fate recorded their second album Don't Break the Oath. Released on September 7, 1984, the album debuted at number 33 on the Swedish Sverigetopplistan charts. Despite winning a cult following around the world, Mercyful Fate broke up in April 1985, due to musical differences. In 1993, King Diamond, Hank Shermann, Michael Denner and Timi Hansen reunited to reform Mercyful Fate (drummer Kim Ruzz was replaced by Morten Nielsen). On June 22, 1993, Mercyful Fate released the album In the Shadows through Metal Blade Records. Following the supporting tour, the band released The Bell Witch on June 27, 1994, an EP of live tracks, as well as studio recordings from In the Shadows. On September 25, 1994, Mercyful Fate released the album Time, which was followed by Into the Unknown in 1996. Into the Unknown also charted at number 31 on Finnish album charts. On June 9, 1998, Mercyful Fate released the album Dead Again, and on May 15, 1999, the band released the album 9.
Dark Medieval Times is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was recorded in August and September 1993 and released in 1994 through Moonfog Productions. It is now out of print and original pressings of the CD are getting harder to find.
Don't Break the Oath is the second studio album by the Danish heavy metal band Mercyful Fate, released in 1984. The style Mercyful Fate employed on Don't Break the Oath resembled a mixture of heavy metal with progressive elements, lyrically preoccupied with Satan and the occult and distinguished by King Diamond's theatrical falsetto vocals. Although very influential to future black metal bands due to its lyrical content, the music itself is more reminiscent of traditional heavy metal. The album was remastered and subsequently re-issued on Roadrunner Records in 1997. This reissue came with the bonus track ""Death Kiss (Demo)"", which would eventually evolve into the album's lead-off track, ""A Dangerous Meeting"". Metal-Rules.com named this the greatest extreme metal album of all time.
Jaktens tid (English: ""Age of the Hunt"") is the second studio album by the Finnish folk metal band Finntroll, released on 18 September 2001 through Spinefarm Records.
Midnattens Widunder (English: Beasts/Behemoths/Monsters of Midnight) is the debut studio album by Finnish folk metal band Finntroll. It was released in Finland in 1999 by Spinefarm.
Nattfödd (English: Nightborn) is the third studio album by the Finnish folk metal band Finntroll. It was released on April 19, 2004 by Spinefarm Records in Finland and by Century Media outside. Nattfödd marks a change in the musical direction of Finntroll, as they drift into a slightly slower, less frenzied sound that is reminiscent of some songs from their first album, Midnattens widunder. It also incorporates some of the acoustic and ambient elements from their previous album, Visor om slutet, though is largely a return to the band's black and folk metal roots. A special edition of the album includes the EP Trollhammaren as a bonus disc.
Trollhammaren (English: The Trollhammer) is an EP from Finnish band Finntroll. It was released on April 13, 2004, by Spinefarm. In an unusual style, this album incorporates an accordion for the intro and chorus.
Visor om slutet (English: Songs About the End) is an all-acoustic folk metal EP by the Finnish band Finntroll. It was released in 2003 by Spinefarm. It was the first album to feature Tapio Wilska on vocals, and the last to feature Jan ""Katla"" Jämsen, who was forced into retirement in 2003 due to a tumour developing on his vocal cords. Visor om slutet was released after a number of misfortunes befell several band members, including the death of guitarist Teemu Raimoranta, to whom the album is dedicated. It was recorded in a cabin off in the woods near Helsinki, coined as an ""acoustic experiment,"" and features the use of traditionally non-metal instruments such as the kazoo. Though quite different in its sound to the folk metal-inspired Jaktens tid, the album was a relative success.
Hatebreeder is the second studio album by Finnish metal band Children of Bodom. The “Deluxe Edition” was released in 2005 with bonus material. Hatebreeder was also re-released in 2008.
Hate Crew Deathroll is the fourth album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom, released in 2003 under the Century Media label. The album is the final one to feature guitarist Alexander Kuoppala. It was successful both in Europe and the USA, which is demonstrated by the appearance of the ""Needled 24/7"" music video on MTV2's Headbangers Ball. ""Needled 24/7"" also featured on the heavy metal documentary Metal: A Headbanger's Journey.
The Age of Nero is the seventh studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was released on 3 November 2008, through Roadrunner Records. The release was backed by a full European headlining tour opening in Stavanger, Norway on 12 November and ending in Hamburg, Germany on 20 December.
Assassins: Black Meddle, Part 1 is the fourth full-length album by Chicago band Nachtmystium. It was released via Century Media Records in the United States on June 10, 2008, and by Candlelight Records in Europe on June 23, 2008. The record was recorded in December 2007 at Sanford Parker's Volume Studios. The album contains such experimental musical flirtations as saxophones and other non-black metal musical ""meddling"".
At the Pulse of Kapitulation: Live in East Berlin, 1990 is a DVD by German thrash metal band Kreator released on March 21, 2008. This DVD includes Live in East Berlin VHS from 1990 re-mixed in 5.1 Digital Surround Sound and re-edited version of Hallucinative Comas VHS from 1991. It also contains a bonus CD with the soundtrack of Live in East Berlin 1990 show.
Eulogy IV is an EP by the Illinois black metal band Nachtmystium. Originally released by Total Holocaust Records in 2004, it has been reissued on CD and LP by Southern Lord Records and Kreation Records with additional bonus tracks.
Funeral Marches and Warsongs is a live DVD from the Swedish black metal band Marduk. Shot in 2003, the DVD contains footage of live performances in France, Poland and Germany, and two music videos
Mere Contemplations is the third album by extreme metal band Enslavement of Beauty from Norway. The album was released in 2007 by INRI Unlimited. All music composed by Tony Eugene Tunheim, all lyrics written by Ole Alexander Myrholt except for parts of ""X and Moments"", from the poem ""X. In a Library"" by Emily Dickinson.
Pērkoņkalve (Thunderforge) is Skyforger's third full-length album. It was recorded from 2001 to 2003 at the Phoenix Studios. The official presentation of the album took place 21 September 2003 at the festival Baltijas Saule (Baltic Sun) in Riga.
The following is a comprehensive discography of Sodom, a German thrash metal band. Formed in 1982, they have so far released fifteen studio albums, three live albums, two compilations, a DVD, two EPs, three singles, and two demos. The band are considered one of the three biggest Teutonic thrash metal acts, the other two being Kreator and Destruction. While the other two bands developed a sound that has influenced death metal, Sodom created a sound that has influenced many black metal bands that formed in the late 1980s and the 1990s.
Strange in Stereo is the third full-length studio album by the Norwegian progressive/avant-garde metal band In the Woods...
The Ghost Album is the sixth album by Wyrd, released in 2006 by Omvina Records.
The Halls of Eternity is Ancient's fourth full-length release.The cover-art is airbrushed by Perre, a Flemish airbrush artist. This is the first album to feature Aphazel, as band's vocalist. He recorded almost the entire album himself, except for drums, female vocals and guest appearance by Jesus Christ! on one song. Jesus Christ! was a member of the band, but he wasn't able to attend the recording process.
Traces o' Red is the debut album by Norwegian black metal band Enslavement of Beauty. It was released in 1999. All music composed by Tony Eugene Tunheim, and all lyrics written by Ole Alexander Myrholt except for ""Dreams"", a poem from 1827 by Edgar Allan Poe. Cover Designe by Sten Brian Tunheim.
Vargtimmen Pt. 2: Ominous Insomnia  is the fourth album by Wyrd, released in 2004 by Solistitium Records. Re-released in 2006 by Omvina with different artwork.
Black Cascade is the third full-length studio album by the American ambient black metal band Wolves in the Throne Room. It was released through Southern Lord Records on March 31, 2009, and in Japan by Daymare Records on May 5, 2009. Track one shares its name with the painting ""Wanderer above the Sea of Fog"" by Caspar David Friedrich.
In the Constellation of the Black Widow is the fifth studio album by British extreme metal band Anaal Nathrakh, released on June 29, 2009, by Candlelight Records. The album was also released on LP, limited to 500 copies. 250 copies are pressed on black and white splatter vinyl, and 250 copies are pressed on black and purple vinyl. The album title is derived from a passage in the book ""Moment of Freedom"" by Norwegian writer Jens Bjørneboe. The cover art is taken from Gustave Doré's illustrations to ""The Raven"". ""Satanarchrist"" is a re-recording from Total Fucking Necro.
Reaper's Grave is an EP by Toxic Holocaust.
Serpent Sermon is the twelfth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was released in North America on June 5 2012 through Century Media Records on CD, vinyl and digital download. It reached number 44 on the Top New Artist Albums (Heatseekers) chart, selling roughly 800 copies in its first week.  Limited edition versions of the album include the bonus track ""Coram Satanae"", and a limited edition 7"" vinyl EP of ""Souls For Belial"" was also released, featuring a cover of Wovenhand's ""Oil On Panel"".  A music video of ""Souls For Belial"" was also released on May 9, 2012. The last album to feature drummer Lars Broddesson.
The Norwegian National Opera is a concert film by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Directed by Erlend Gjertsen, the film was issued on DVD and Blu-ray Disc in November 2011 via Jester Records and Kscope. The film documents Ulver’s performance at The Norwegian National Opera on 31 July 2010. The concert was later issued as a CD/DVD set, and double LP. The film holds an 18 rating from the BBFC for containing strong sex and bloody images, however, no cuts were made to the performance. The concert also included performances from artist Ian Johnstone, “welcoming everyone as Mr. Ark Todd in a static dance under a levitating moon, and parting with a pillar, on the skeleton legs of a horse, pale and naked as nature intended. The two pieces were accompanied by piano prepared by Daniel and the sound of a sleeping beast from Kris' pad.” Until recently Ulver had remained exclusively within the studio. This changed in May 2009 when the band accepted an invitation to appear at the Norwegian Festival of Literature. The success of this gig lead to them embarking on a string of other live performances in 2009 and 2010, selling out prestigious venues such as the Queen Elizabeth Hall in London, Volksbühne in Berlin and La Cigale in Paris before they returned to their homeland for their performance at The Norwegian Opera House. Ulver were the first band outside the established Norwegian music scene to be invited to play at the Opera House. On 9 September 2011 a trailer was released by Kscope.
Advent Parallax is the fourth full-length studio album released by American black metal band Averse Sefira. It was released in 2008 on Candelight Records, with a vinyl pressing by independent label The Ajna Offensive. Over the course of its eight tracks, it is divided into 4 sections, ""Anoint"" (tracks 1 & 2), ""Alight"" (tracks 3 & 4), ""Align"" (tracks 5 & 6) and ""Shine"" (tracks 7 & 8). The credits proudly state that ""No keyboards were used in this recording.""
An Examination of Being is the second studio album of Tampa based death metal band, Order of Ennead. It was recorded at AudioHammer Studios in Sanford, Florida with producer Mark Lewis.
Ghastly Funeral Theatre (Japanese 葬式劇場, Sōshiki gekijō) is an EP by the band Sigh. Ghastly Funeral Theatre marked the beginning of Sigh's progressive and avant-garde experimentation, a short time before they had on Hail Horror Hail. The album was reissued on vinyl on January 26, 2010 by The Crypt, and included the Tragedies demo from 1990. It was limited to 500 copies: 250 of which were in black, the other 250 were in green.
Order of Ennead is the self-titled debut studio album of Tampa based death metal band, Order of Ennead. It was recorded at AudioHammer Studios in Sanford, Florida with producer Mark Lewis.
The Seventh Date of Blashyrkh is black metal band Immortal's first live DVD. All content is from the Wacken Open Air set they performed in 2007, as part of their comeback tour, The Seventh Date of Blashyrkh.
Antigod is an EP by Swiss heavy metal band Samael.
Marrow of the Spirit is the fourth album by American metal band Agalloch, released on November 23, 2010.
Paracletus is the fifth full-length studio album recorded by the French black metal band Deathspell Omega, released on 9 November 2010 through Norma Evangelium Diaboli along with Season of Mist. It is the third part in their metaphysical trilogy of albums representing God, the Devil and Man (following Si monvmentvm reqvires, circvmspice and Fas – Ite, Maledicti, in Ignem Aeternum). The term paracletus is the Latinised form of the Greek word παράκλητος (parákletos), meaning comforter. It is another name for the Holy Spirit. Stylistically the album continues in the experimental vein of their previous work since 2004. The tracks are mostly continuous, being more movements of a larger piece than individual songs, although there are slight pauses in between tracks 3 and 4 and between tracks 5 and 6. The track ""Devouring Famine"" was released as a free download by Season of Mist approximately three weeks before the album's release.
Ayodhya Burns is the debut album by the Indian black metal band Heathen Beast.
From the Depths of Darkness is a compilation album by one-man musical project Burzum, released on 6 December 2011 through Byelobog Productions. It consists of newly re-recorded tracks from Burzum's first two albums, Burzum (1992) and Det som engang var (1993), along with three new tracks.
Rengeteg is the fifth studio album by Hungarian Avant-garde metal band Thy Catafalque, to be released on 11 November 2011 in Europe and 10 January 2012 in North America. This is the first Thy Catafalque album written and recorded by Tamás Kátai alone without János Juhász, who did not contribute to the recording this time. Rengeteg means ""big amount"" or ""big trackless forest"" in Hungarian. In 2011 the band signed to Season Of Mist.
Death is the fourth officially released album/EP by Finnish black metal band Thy Serpent. It is the last heard of Thy Serpent since its release in 2000. It is also the first of their work to feature their current lineup, with Tomi Ullgren on lead, and the new drummer. It was recorded at a different studio than the three previous CDs.
Death is the second studio album by Spanish extreme metal band Teitanblood. It was released on 13 May 2014 through The Ajna Offensive and Norma Evangelium Diaboli record labels.
Evangelion is the ninth full-length album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The album was released on August 7, 2009 through Nuclear Blast Records and on August 11, 2009, through Metal Blade Records in the USA.
Exodus is an EP by Swiss heavy metal band Samael, released on 20 April 1998 through Century Media. The contents of the release were later included as bonus tracks on the 2007 re-release of Passage.
Genesis is the seventh full-length album by the Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. The release showed some return to the group's more aggressive early days as a black metal band, featuring fast, percussive tempos and raw vocals, as well as some gothic and doom elements from middle releases. It was produced by Andy Classen in Germany at the Stage-One-Studio, also used by Krisiun, Belphegor and Callenish Circle.
Hellfire is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band 1349. It was released on 24 October 2005 through Candlelight Records. A music video was produced for the track ""Sculptor of Flesh"". The video, directed by Judd Tilyard, alternates between footage of the band performing the song in Norway and clips of surgery filmed in Australia.
Passion is the sixth studio album by British extreme metal band Anaal Nathrakh. It was released on May 17, 2011, by Candlelight Records. The album features guest appearances by Drugzilla, Rainer Landfermann, Ventnor and Alan Dubin.
Perdition City (subtitled Music to an Interior Film) is the fifth studio album by Norwegian collective Ulver, issued in March 2000, via Jester Records. The album was recorded and edited by Kristoffer Rygg and Tore Ylwizaker, mixed by Ylwizaker at Beep Jam Studio and mastered by Audun Strype at Strype Audio. Perdition City continues the experimentation seen on Themes from William Blake's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell and Metamorphosis, containing elements of trip hop, jazz, ambient music, spoken word and electronica. Described on its release as moody, atmospheric electronica, cinematic in scope, evoking a soundtrack for an imaginary film. Kerrang! praised the album, noting ""This ain't rock 'n roll. This is evolution on such a grand scale that most bands wouldn't even be able to wrap their tiny little minds around it."" Musically, Ulver not only explores new genres, but also shift from extrovert, into more introverted moods, or interior music.
Puritanical Euphoric Misanthropia is the fifth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was released by Nuclear Blast Records in 2001. This is the first album to feature drummer Nicholas Barker, guitarist Galder and the first to feature ICS Vortex on bass and also the first time the band used real orchestral instrumentation in place of the keyboard lines.
Resurrection is the tenth album by heavy metal band Venom. It was released on SPV/Steamhammer in 2000. It is the last Venom album to feature original member Mantas on guitar.
Sala Molksa is a mini-album by Negură Bunget, released on cassette in October 1998 on Bestial Records and on CD in 1999. The band had originally planned to release it as a 7"" on Sombre Records from Germany. In February 2004, it was remastered, remixed and re-released as part of the band's 3CD Negură Bunget Box set.
Schizophrenia is the second studio album by Brazilian thrash metal band Sepultura, released on October 30, 1987 by Cogumelo Records. It is the first album for the band with Andreas Kisser. The album's sound leans more towards the thrash metal genre than the previous album Morbid Visions, which is stylistically closer to death metal and black metal. All songs were recorded during August 1987, except for the bonus track ""Troops of Doom"" which was recorded during August 26–27, 1990. In America the band sent radio playlists at the time when they were struggling to book gigs because club owners were afraid to book them due to their style. Roadrunner Records signed them and released Schizophrenia internationally before seeing the band perform in person.
The Middle Kingdom is the second studio album by the Irish Celtic metal band Cruachan released in 2000 on Hammerheart Records.
The Perdition EP is an album from the Norwegian metal band Enslavement of Beauty that was released in January 2009. The album was recorded at Farmyard Studio and Kamfer Studios, in Mosjøen, Norway and was released by INRI Unlimited. All music is written and performed by Tony Eugene Tunheim, the lyrics are written and vocals performed by Ole Alexander Myrholt. Cover art by Sten Brian Tunheim. The EP was mixed and mastered by Henrik Ryösä at VoxHouse Studio in Sweden and produced by Henrik Ryösä with Tony Eugene Tunheim. A video for the song ""Lush"", produced by Sten Brian Tunheim, was recorded in Bergen in springtime 2008 and was released on 12 December on YouTube and on the band's Myspace.
The Return…… (full title The Return of the Darkness and Evil) is the second studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released on vinyl on 27 May 1985, through Combat Records.
Thrash Anthems is a studio album released by thrash metal band Destruction in 2007. The album is a compilation of re-recordings of old songs and two new songs: ""Deposition (Your Heads Will Roll)"" and ""Profanity"". The limited digipack edition includes one bonus track (""Eternal Ban"") and avideoclip for ""Total Desaster"". The 2-LP version does not include the bonus track and the running order of the tracks is partly different.
Time is the fourth studio album by the Danish heavy metal band Mercyful Fate. It was released on 25 October 1994 by Metal Blade Records.
WW is the sixth full-length album by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna. It was recorded and released 4 years after their previous album.
ØØ Void (pronounced in interviews as Double-O Void) is the debut studio album by Sunn O))). The album was recorded to 24 track 2"" tape at Grandmaster studios in Hollywood, a large step forward in production values from the band's demo The Grimmrobe Demos. The third track, ""Rabbits' Revenge"", is an interpretation of an obscure Melvins song that was only played live during their early years. A sample of a live performance of the original song can be heard past the five minute mark. The album was originally released in 2000, by Hydra Head in the USA, and by Rise Above in Europe and the United Kingdom. In 2008, ØØ Void was reissued, and released in Japan only, through Japanese record label Daymare Recordings. The reissue was a two-disc set, with the first disc containing all of the original tracks from ØØ Void and the second disc containing a collaboration between Sunn O))) and experimental/industrial group Nurse with Wound. The album was re-released in the original single-disc format in 2011 by Southern Lord Recordings, with new album artwork by Stephen Kasner.
Altar is a collaboration album between Japanese doom band Boris and American drone doom duo Sunn O))), released on October 31, 2006 through Southern Lord Records. A limited two-CD edition was released on October 23 via Southern Lord with a 28-minute bonus track with Sunn O))), Boris, and Dylan Carlson, titled ""Her Lips Were Wet with Venom"". Inoxia Records released their own two-CD version in 2006 which features a bonus track on the first disc, ""The Sinking Belle (Black Sheep)"", and also features ""Her Lips Were Wet with Venom"" on disc 2. The triple-vinyl edition by Southern Lord contains all of the songs from their two-CD edition, additional pictures, and liner notes by Kim Thayil. The Daymare 3LP version was released March 23, 2007 and features a bonus track not found on any other version of this release: ""The Sinking Belle (White Sheep)"". In addition to major players Sunn O))) and Boris, Altar also boasts an extensive roster of guest musicians/collaborators such as Kim Thayil (Soundgarden), Joe Preston (Earth, Thrones, Melvins, High on Fire), Phil Wandscher and Jesse Sykes (both of Jesse Sykes and the Sweet Hereafter) as well as long time Sunn O))) collaborators TOS Niewenhuizen and Rex Ritter. On December 10, 2007, the bands collaborated at the Forum in London along with a number of the guests featured on Altar for a live performance. A 3LP picture disc version of the album, limited to 500 copies, was sold exclusively at this London show.
Better Off Dead is the fourth studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 1 October 1990 by Steamhammer/SPV. The song ""The Saw Is the Law"" in an altered version that was released on the EP The Saw Is the Law.
Conjuration is the fourth EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The first three tracks were recorded between June and September, 2002. The live songs were recorded at the Mystic Festival on 13 October 2001. The tracks were then mastered at the High End Studio in June, 2003. In 2011, the EP (along with several previously unreleased live tracks) was bundled with Slaves Shall Serve and released as part of the compilation album Abyssus Abyssum Invocat.
Enemy of God is the eleventh studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator. The gothenburg influences of the band's previous album, Violent Revolution, became more prominent on this album. It was released by Steamhammer Records on January 10 in Europe and South America and on January 11, 2005 in North America. On October 27, 2006, the album was re-released in a digipak under the name ""Enemy of God: Revisited"", with a 5.1 DTS 96/24 mix, featuring two bonus tracks from the Japanese edition and a bonus DVD.
Merciless is the fourth album of the Swedish death metal band Merciless. It was released in 2003 after they re-united.
The Apostasy is the eighth full-length album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The album was released on July 17, 2007 through Regain Records.
Theogonia (Greek for ""Birth of the gods"") is the ninth full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. It is their first release through Season of Mist, and the first to feature guitarist Giorgos Bokos (Nightfall) in the line-up. The album includes a special edition DVD with 2005–2006 tour footage of the band in Italy, Russia, and Brazil; a ""making of"" documentary; and a music video for the song ""Keravnos Kivernitos"". A music video was also made for the song ""Enuma Elish"". In 2007, Theogonia obtained the Metal Storm award for the Best Black Metal Album of the Year.
In the Nightside Eclipse is the first studio album and fourth official release by Norwegian black metal band Emperor, released in 1994 through Candlelight Records. It was the last album to feature drummer Faust and the only one to feature one-time bassist Tchort. Considered a landmark in the black metal scene, the album has been ranked by critics as one of the most influential albums of the genre. It also contains one of Emperor's best known tracks, ""I Am the Black Wizards"".
Angel Coma is a split album by Sunn O))) and Earth featuring material reminiscent of the Black One and Hex sessions. It was released on a respective tour of theirs in 2005, limited to 2000 copies. The Earth track ""A Plague of Angels"" later appeared on their album Hibernaculum.
Dol Guldur is the third studio album by the Austrian black metal band Summoning. It was released in 1996, through Napalm Records.
Enter the Moonlight Gate is the second album by Lord Belial. It was released in 1997 by No Fashion Records. The eight and final track is continued on Lord Belial's next album named Unholy Crusade. In April 2014, Greek label Floga Records reissued Enter The Moonlight Gate for the first time on LP. This edition is limited to 250 copies black vinyl and 250 copies black/blue splatter vinyl both colors have slightly revised cover artwork and the new Lord Belial band logo. Floga Records will again reissue it as part of a limited 6LP Lord Belial boxset which is to be released September 2014. Enter the Moonlight Gate is also available as an extremely limited (250 copies) digipak and comes with a poster.
Hangman's Hymn: Musikalische Exequien is an album by the Japanese heavy metal band Sigh. It is their first album for The End Records. Audio samples on The End website suggest Sigh have kept their clean vocals style as shown on their previous album as well as returned to a black metal-styled vocalization. Sigh's lead singer Mirai Kawashima has described the style of the music as a ""German thrash-metal-meets-symphonies"" style. The album sounds more akin to black metal than the band's previous two releases, with far more added symphonic elements. In June 2006, a message from Kawashima was posted on the Slaughter Garden, asking for vocal help with two parts of the album; he wanted volunteers singing lyrics in Latin to send him audio files so he could build up an epic chorus. Some tracks of the Album is named after various parts from the Requiem mass. It also holds some progressions and melodies from Mozart's Requiem in D-minor Samples from the track ""Me-Devil"" are featured on the Global Metal trailer. Hangman's Hymn also features some of the shortest songs in the Sigh discography.
In Memory of Quorthon is a box set of three audio CDs and one DVD with remastered material from Bathory, Quorthon's solo efforts, and the Jennie Tebler project. The track list was selected by ""Boss"" Forsberg. The album cover was drawn by Kristian Wåhlin and was meant to be the artwork for Bathory's last album which was never released. All songs were remastered. A poster of Quorthon breathing fire taken from the 1987 session in London's Railway Bridge of London was included. Text written by Quorthon personally appears in italics. Besides lyrics, the book features Bathory's history, discography, background on the first recordings – with titles, years, studios, covers – and even a couple of photographs. Nearly all of this is from Quorthon's and Boss's own private archives. The fourth disc is a DVD containing the 11-minute video for ""One Rode to Asa Bay"", as well as the MTV interview Quorthon did in London for the release of Hammerheart.
Let Mortal Heroes Sing Your Fame is the fifth studio album by the Austrian black metal band Summoning. It was released on 31 October 2001, through Napalm Records. It is the first of their releases to feature clean vocals, on the chorus of ""Farewell"". It is also their first album to make extensive use of audio samples (taken from radio productions of The Lord of the Rings), giving the album a slight dramaturgic bent.
Oath Bound is the sixth full-length album by Summoning. Not counting certain pieces from the soundtrack of The Lord of the Rings, ""Mirdautas Vras"" is the first song ever to be written entirely in the Black Speech of Mordor. The songs ""Might and Glory"" and ""Land of the Dead"" both feature a self-sung choir chorus similar to that which was used on the Let Mortal Heroes Sing Your Fame song ""Farewell"". Being 21 seconds longer than Dol Guldur, this album was Summoning's longest release before the release of the version of Old Mornings Dawn containing bonus tracks. It also contains the band's longest song, Land of the Dead.
WHITEbox is a box set re-issue of the White1 and White2 albums by Sunn O))) on vinyl. It contains three white vinyl records and a picture disc with photos of Attila Csihar and both versions of ""Decay"". The initial release of the WHITEbox was limited to 450 copies. The second and most rare of the WHITEbox sets is the ""tour"" edition which was limited to 100 copies and was only sold at live Sunn O))) performances. The tour edition of the WHITEbox has a different picture on the front of the box, which like the first edition is signed and numbered by the photographer. Also included, in addition to the four White records, is Candlewolf of the Golden Chalice on red vinyl and the second edition of Live White on CD.
We Are Death... Fukk You! is the second album from Australian death metal band Sadistik Exekution. It was released in 1994 on Osmose Productions. The name of the album does not appear on the cover, as the band had intended it to be a self-titled release. However, singer Rok had written the words ""we are death... fukk you"" on the master tapes in protest against the label's marketing of them as a black metal band. Osmose mistakenly believed that was the title of the album, and released it as such. Drummer Sloth left during the recording, and some drum tracks were recorded by Steve Hoban.
Barathrum: V.I.T.R.I.O.L. is the debut album of American black metal band Absu. It was released on December 1, 1993 via Gothic Records, and re-released in 1994 by Osmose Productions with three bonus tracks. It would be reissued once more in 2011 by The Crypt Records, as a boxset containing 3 discs — the first disc contains the album itself plus the three live tracks from the Osmose Productions re-issue; the second disc contains alternate versions of the tracks ""Descent to Acheron"", ""An Equinox of Fathomless Disheartenment"", ""The Thrice Is Greatest to Ninnigal"", ""Infinite and Profane Thrones"" and ""Fantasizing to the Third of the Pagan Visions""; and the third disc contains the Temples of Offal EP, the Return of the Ancients demo, and the track ""Abhorred Xul"", composed when Absu was still called Azathoth. ""Barathrum"" is a word in Latin (derived from the Greek βάραθρον — várathron) meaning ""gulch"", or ""deep, dark hole"", while ""V.I.T.R.I.O.L."" is an acronym for ""Visita Interiora Terræ Rectificando Invenies Occultum Lapidem"", an alchemic motto that can be roughly translated as ""Visit the interior of the earth and [by] purifying [yourself] you will find the hidden stone"".
Beyond the Apocalypse is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band 1349. It was released in 2004 through Candlelight Records.
Halmstad (Niklas angående Niklas) is the fifth album by Shining. It was released by Osmose Productions on April 16, 2007. A black LP edition was released and limited to 500 copies. Several lines by Christina Ricci from the movie Prozac Nation were sampled in this album. Track 5 is an arrangement of Ludwig van Beethoven's ""Moonlight Sonata"". Track 1 starts with the beginning verses of ""Antigonish"", an 1889 poem by William Hughes Mearns:
Hedniskhjärtad (""Paganhearted"") is the first released recording by Swedish folk metal band Vintersorg. It was released on 6 July 1998.
Lords of Depravity Part I is a DVD release by the German thrash metal band Sodom.
Masterpiece of Bitterness is the second full-length album by Icelandic band Sólstafir, as well as their debut album with Spinefarm Records.
Scenarios of Violence is a compilation album by German thrash metal band Kreator, released in 1996 through Noise Records. This collection features two previously unreleased songs. Tracks 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 and 16 are remixed by Siggi Bemm & Mille Petrozza. Tracks 3, 8, 9, 10 and 12 are digitally remastered by Siggi Bemm. The live tracks were recorded at the Dynamo club, Eindhoven, the Netherlands in 1988.
Submit to Selfdestruction is an EP by Shining, released in 1998. It is a black 7 inch pressing limited to 300 handnumbered copies. Kvarforth was 14 years old when Submit to Selfdestruction was released. The tracks on this EP also appear on Through Years of Oppression.
The Sun of Tiphareth is the second full-length studio album by black metal band Absu. It was released on Osmose Productions in 1995.
The Third Storm of Cythraul is the third full-length studio album by black metal band Absu. It was released on Osmose Productions in 1997.
Till fjälls (""To the Mountains"") is the first full-length album by Swedish folk metal band Vintersorg. Stylistically this continued in the same musical vein as the previous album, Hedniskhjärtad, with black metal-style riffs, harsh vocals and blast beats interspersed with folk melodies, acoustics, and atmospherics.
Twilight of the Idols (In Conspiracy with Satan) is the sixth album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. It was released on 21 July 2003 by Nuclear Blast, and reissued in 2006 by Back on Black Records. It was the only album to feature drummer Kvitrafn. This was the first album on which Infernus was not the main songwriter. Instead, the music for this album was composed by bassist King ov Hell and Kvitrafn. The album cover depicted a burning church, but due to the ensuing controversy, some copies of the album featured a picture of the band members instead.
Under the Sign of Hell is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. Recorded in 1996 and released in 1997, it was the first album to feature Ares on bass (on one track) and the only one to feature Grim on drums.
Ur jordens djup (English: From the Depths of the Earth) is the fourth full-length Finntroll album. It was released on March 28, 2007. The album is the first to feature vocalist Mathias Lillmåns, who replaced Tapio Wilska in 2006. Unlike in Nattfödd, the lyrics for this album were written by the band's original vocalist, Jan ""Katla"" Jämsen. This and other factors appear to contribute to a darker, more black metal feel. A music video for ""Nedgång"" was released in April.
Í Blóði og Anda (English: ""In Blood and Spirit"") is the first full-length album by Sólstafir.Sólstafir started to record Í Blóði og Anda in 1999, but it wasn't released until 2002. Shortly after its release Ars Metalli went under and the album became a rarity just a few months after its release.
Ödemarkens son (""Son of the Wilderness"") is the second full-length album by Swedish progressive/folk metal band Vintersorg. It was released on 16 November 1999. It builds on the folk metal of the previous album.
An Overdose of Death... is the third full-length album released by American thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust on September 2, 2008. Music videos have been made for ""Wild Dogs"", ""Nuke the Cross"", and ""The Lord of the Wasteland"".
Attera Orbis Terrarum – Part I is the first of the two-part Attera Orbis Terrarum series of live DVDs by Swedish black metal band Dark Funeral. As well as consisting of two shows recorded at Tilburg, Netherlands, and Paris, France, on the European leg of Dark Funeral's Attera Orbis Terrarum tour in 2006, it includes a recording of a concert in Katowice, Poland, in 2005, and various amateur footage such as that of the band's debut concert in the Metal Nights Festival in Oslo, Norway, in 1994.
Attera Orbis Terrarum – Part II is the second of the two-part Attera Orbis Terrarum series of live DVDs by Swedish black metal band Dark Funeral. This part accounts for the South American leg of the Attera Orbis Terrarum tour in October 2006, and also includes amateur footage filmed in both North America and South America.
Dark Thrones and Black Flags is the 13th album by the Norwegian band Darkthrone. Released in October 2008, the music largely followed in the style of their previous album, F.O.A.D. Half of the lyrics and music were written by Nocturno Culto, while the other half were written by Fenriz.
Hordes of Chaos is the twelfth studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator. It has been described as their most organic album to date because, barring vocals, guitar solos and some melodies, the album was recorded in a live setting on an analog tape recorder with few overdubs. Frontman Mille Petrozza noted that this was the first time they have recorded an album this way since Pleasure to Kill in 1986. The album was released in three different formats. The standard edition was issued in a jewel case and features the 10 album tracks. A deluxe edition features a bonus DVD with a making of the album documentary. The LP version of the album has different artwork to the other versions. This was the first Kreator album to chart in the United States, debuting at number 165 on the Billboard 200 chart in the US, with first week sales of approximately 2,800 copies. The album was re-released as the 'Ultra Riot' box set edition in mid-2010. It featured new artwork, extended liner notes, promo videos, a bonus disc with demo tracks and cover songs and various pieces of memorabilia (such as a photobook, sticker, poster and photo card).
In the Shadow of a Thousand Suns is the debut album by American black metal band Abigail Williams. It was released on October 28, 2008 on Candlelight Records. The album peaked at #35 on Billboard's Top Heatseekers chart. The album was reissued on January 12, 2010 as a deluxe edition that included a second disc featuring five previously unreleased tracks. The vinyl pressing of the reissue was limited to 1,000 copies.
Live Without Sense is a live album by German thrash metal band Destruction.
Reign of the Malicious is the debut full-length album by Nachtmystium. Originally released on CD November 9, 2002 by Regimental Records (limited to 666) and LP by Sombre Records (limited to 350). Tape version released by Asgard Musik on August 27, 2003 (limited to 500copies). Reissued with the Self-Titled EP on one CD by Desire of Goat Productions in 2005 (limited to500 copies) Reissued in 2005 as a Pic-Disc by Ahdistuksen Aihio Productions. Reissued by Candlelight Records in 2008 with alternative cover art.
Øl, mørke og depresjon (Beer, Darkness and Depression) is the first album by Norwegian black metal supergroup Den Saakaldte, released on April 14, 2008 by Eerie Art Records.
Above is the eighth studio album from the heavy metal band Samael, released on 6 March 2009 by Nuclear Blast.
Amarok is the second studio album by black metal band Nargaroth. It contains different versions of older songs as well as previously unreleased material.
Code Red is the ninth studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 31 May 1999 by Drakkar Entertainment. On this album, Sodom returned to classic thrash metal which pleased many fans. It was also released as a two-disc limited edition with a Sodom tribute album called Homage to the Gods and as a two-disc edition with an Onkel Tom Angelripper's album called Ich glaub´nicht an den Weihnachtsmann.
Destroyer – or About How to Philosophize with the Hammer is the fourth full-length album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. It was their first release on Nuclear Blast. It contained eight tracks performed by several different lineups, with band founder Infernus being the only member to be featured on all tracks. Four different vocalists were featured on the album, including Infernus on two tracks, Pest on four tracks, and T-Reaper and new vocalist Gaahl each on one track. Destroyer was the first album to feature Gaahl and guitarist Tormentor, the only one for T-Reaper and drummer Vrolok, the last to feature Pest until his return in 2008, and the last for drummer Frost until his return in 2004. The album was re-released in 2006 by Back on Black Records as a gatefold vinyl LP. The subtitle of the album, ""Or About How to Philosophize with the Hammer"", was also the subtitle of Nietzsche's Twilight of the Idols, which itself would be a future Gorgoroth album title.
Gin is the third album by the Black Metal band Cobalt. It was released by Profound Lore in 2009.
Grom (""Thunder"" in Polish) is the second studio album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was recorded and mixed from December 1995 to January 1996 and was originally released in January 1996 through Solistitium Records, and later by Pagan Records. The album is Behemoth's last release before their shift into a death metal sound.
Hate is the Third studio album by Brazilian extreme metal band Sarcófago, released in 1994 through Cogumelo Records. It has a more stripped-down approach than their previous record, The Laws of Scourge (1991). Hate is also notable for its controversial use of a drum machine, which was used because there were no drummers who could play as fast as the band wished. The band was trying to be the fastest band in the world. Lamounier claimed to have no qualms about using this device, on the basis that most death metal drummers use trigger pads for recording purposes, which in the end produces the same homogenized sound as that of a drum machine. The song ""Satanic Terrorism"" is about the 'Inner Circle' church burnings in Norway at the beginning of the 90s; Sarcófago was accused of supporting these acts, but Lamounier claims that the song only describes the acts.
Legend is the debut EP by black metal band Abigail Williams. It was originally released as a live EP of concert songs on October 3, 2006 and was later released through Candlelight Records as studio-quality release on January 23, 2007. The EP is noted for its metalcore influences that are abandoned after this release. Musical critic website Allmusic stated ""Legend is best described as death metal/black metal with metalcore influences.""
Liberation is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band 1349. It was released on 15 February 2003 through Candlelight Records.
Nordland I is the eleventh studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released on 18 November 2002 through Black Mark Production. It is a return to the Viking metal of Bathory's middle period, and features songs mainly concerning Norse mythology. It was to be the first in a projected four-album set, but Quorthon only lived long enough to finish the first two volumes (2003's Nordland II being the second).
Nordland II is the twelfth and final studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It is the successor to Nordland I. It was released on 31 March 2003, through Black Mark Production. Nordland II was intended to be the second installment in a four-album series, but Quorthon's death precluded the completion of those projects. It is also released as a limited digipak.
Panzerfaust is the fifth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone, released in June 1995 by Moonfog Productions (Europe) and The End Records (North America).
Sirens is the fourth album released by the Greek Black metal band Astarte. It was released in 2004.
Sota is the first EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Sinister Productions in 1999 with a limit of 666 copies, though only 200-300 copies are believed to exist. It has not been re-released.
The Awakening is the debut album by the Swedish death metal band Merciless. The original album was recorded in Summer 1989 but was not released by Deathlike Silence Productions until February 1990. The original press was limited to 1000 CDs and LPs and is now considered one of the most rare and expensive albums in heavy metal collecting. It was later re-issued in 1999 by Osmose Productions with a different color cover and four live bonus tracks. The live tracks were recorded in Uppsala, Sweden on 7 December 1990.
The Butterfly Effect is the fourth studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell, released in 1999, inspired by chaos theory. The album is characterised by a more experimental approach than their previous material, incorporating many elements of electronic music and industrial metal. The music is composed primarily by the band’s keyboardist, Pedro Paixão. The beginning of ""Tired"" samples Mozart's Requiem. The length for ""K"" is actually 3:40. The song is followed by a 9-minute hidden track.
The Other Side is a studio release by black metal band Alastis. It was released in 1997 on Century Media.
(For similarly named EPs, see The White EP (Pop-O-Pies EP) and The White EP (Mirrors EP).)(""The White (album)"" redirects here. For other uses, see White (disambiguation).)
The White is an EP by American metal band Agalloch, released on February 29, 2008. A follow-up to Agalloch's 2004 EP The Grey, it completed a dichotomy of releases for Vendlus Records. The White contained seven neofolk and dark ambient tracks written and recorded between 2004 and 2007. The release was limited to 2000 copies. The song ""Sowilo Rune"" (referencing the Sowilo rune) was posted on the band's official Myspace page on January 4. The songs ""The Isle of Summer,"" ""Summerisle Reprise,"" and ""Sowilo Rune"" contained samples from the 1973 film The Wicker Man. ""Birch White"" featured vocalist John Haughm reciting the poem ""Birch Tree"" by A. S. J. Tessimond.
Zos Kia Cultus (Here and Beyond) is the sixth album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was recorded at the Hendrix Studios in June–September 2002 and mastered at the High End Studio in Warsaw in September 2002. The title refers to Zos Kia Cultus, a form of magic developed by Austin Osman Spare. At the end of the track ""Horns ov Baphomet"", the person speaking is Aleister Crowley. It is from the track At Sea from the CD The Great Beast Speaks, which contains audio files from the only known recording of his voice. The album was re-released through Peaceville Records as a limited edition digipak. It contained an enhanced audio disc with a video of As Above So Below was included with the release.
Pitch Black Brigade is the second album by the Norwegian black metal band Vreid. The sound was mixed by Lars Klokkerhaug at Subsonic Society.
Becoming is the third album by American black metal band Abigail Williams. It was released on January 24, 2012 via Candlelight Records. The record was met with highly positive critics. It was thought to be the last album of the band, as they announced disbandment, however, later on, it was confirmed that Abigail Williams are getting together again for at least an album and a tour.
Black Mass Krakow 2004 is a live concert DVD by Norwegian black metal band, Gorgoroth. It was released by Metal Mind on 9 June 2008 in Europe, and on 8 July 2008 in the US. The DVD featured the band's controversial 2004 concert that was filmed in a TV studio in Kraków, Poland. The DVD also included live footage from the Full Force Festival Leipzig 2000, band biography, discography, photo gallery, desktop images and web links, and was compatible with Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound.
Metamorphosis is the first EP by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Written and produced by Rygg and Ylwizaker, the EP was issued on September 27, 1999 via Jester Records. The EP showcased Ulver's new electronic sound, thus, acting as a musical trailer for Perdition City. In the sleeve notes to Metamorphosis, the group declared:
Requiem – Mezzo Forte is the centerpiece of Virgin Black's Requiem trilogy. The album was released on April 3, 2007 in North America on The End Records and April 13, 2007 in Europe on Massacre Records. The Massacre release includes a special 2-disc version. The album builds on the styles Virgin Black used in their previous albums, with the band and the Adelaide Symphony Orchestra complimenting one another's sound and given roughly equal prominence.
Rituals is the twelfth full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. It was released on 12 February 2016 via Season of Mist.
Rotting is an EP by the Brazilian extreme metal band Sarcófago. It was released in August 1989. Prior to recording, drummer D. D. Crazy left the band to join Sextrash, and M. Joker took over on drums. After a short tour, the band headed for the studios. The EP was licensed to Music for Nations in Europe, and in the US the cover was censored. Later, the CD was seized by the authorities from European importers and distributors, once again because of its cover. The EP features a much more technical approach to their previous effort, I.N.R.I., and as opposed to a mass of short songs features minimal lengthy songs - the EP features 4 tracks on the album over 6 minutes in length. Tracy nearly reaches the 9 minute mark. The guitar recording has a peculiar method where the one guitar recording is played in both speakers with one having a slightly altered pitch to give the impression that two different guitars are playing precisely the same thing. The EP stays akin to death metal, featuring several tempo changes throughout and constant riff changes in odd song structures - Tracy has approximately 20 riffs, and the tempo can be clocked at around 260 beats per minute for most of them.
Universal is the eighth full-length album by the Norwegian metal band Borknagar. It marks the return of guitarist Jens F. Ryland. The band's former vocalist ICS Vortex performed vocals on the track My Domain. The album was intended to be released in the fall of 2009, but the release date was postponed as a result of a label decision. It was released on 22 February 2010 in four formats: a regular jewelcase CD, a limited digipack which includes a bonus disc, a CD box with extras, and a gatefold LP with double vinyl.
Antichrist is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. The working title of the album was Død (meaning death or dead). It was released on 3 March 1996 on LP (limited to 500 copies) and CD on Malicious Records, and was re-released several times: in 1999 on Century Black, as a remastered version on Season of Mist in 2005, on LP in 2005 on Agonia Records (limited to 1000 copies), and on LP in 2006 on Back on Black Records. The Back on Black LP was released in a gatefold sleeve, and included a guitar pick signed by Infernus. It was the first album to feature Pest on vocals and Frost on drums, and the last album to feature Hat on vocals.
De Profundis Clamavi Ad Te Domine (Latin for ""From the Depths, I Have Cried Out to You, O Lord"") is the first live album by black metal band Dark Funeral. It was recorded during the South American tour in September 2003, and was released by Regain Records on April 19, 2004.
Domine Non Es Dignus is the second studio album by British black metal group Anaal Nathrakh. It was released on 2 November 2004. The title means ""Lord, you are not worthy"" in Latin.
F.O.A.D. (an initialism for Fuck Off And Die) is the 12th album by the Norwegian band Darkthrone. Released on September 25, 2007, the album was a further shift from Darkthrone's black metal roots, expanding on the punk-oriented style introduced on their previous album, The Cult is Alive. It also featured some parts that are similar to traditional heavy metal. Special editions of the album contained a postcard, poster and T-shirt.
Into the Unknown is the fifth album by Mercyful Fate, released by Metal Blade Records in 1996. Into the Unknown is the most commercially successful Mercyful Fate album to date. It peaked at #31 in the Finnish charts, remaining for two weeks in the Top 40. It is the only album by the band to appear on the charts.
Mammal is the second studio album by the Irish black metal band Altar of Plagues. It was released through Candlelight Records in Europe and Profound Lore Records in North America, each with different artwork.
The Antichrist is the seventh album by German thrash metal band Destruction, released in 2001 through Nuclear Blast.
Unbound is the third album of the Swedish death metal band Merciless. It was released in 1994. The cover artwork is created by Kristian Wåhlin.
Vobiscum Satanas (Latin for ""May Satan Be with You"") is Dark Funeral's second full-length album. This was the first album to feature longtime vocalist and lyricist Emperor Magus Caligula, and the only one to feature guitarist Typhos and drummer Alzazmon. The album was remastered and reissued on CD by Regain Records in 2007. The reissue was limited to 3,000 copies and also featured four bonus tracks recorded live at Hultsfreds Festival in 1998. The album was remastered in May 2007 by Peter In de Betou at Tailor Maid Productions.
Calm Before the Storm is the fifth album by Venom. The original title of the album would have been Deadline, but the title was changed when guitarist Jeffrey ""Mantas"" Dunn left the band and was replaced by Jimi Clare and Mike Hickey. Both were to follow bassist Conrad ""Cronos"" Lant in his later solo career and the latter would also return on the 2006 album Metal Black. The album is characterised by a ""cleaner"", more synthetic sound when compared to Venom's other albums. Especially the drums, which sound almost like a drum machine, are contributing to this fact. Also, the guitar has a brighter sound and is easily distinguishable from the bass. The change in sound is perhaps mostly due to the addition of another guitarist and the producer Nick Tauber, who had previously worked with hard rock acts such as UFO and Thin Lizzy.
Kairos is the twelfth studio album by the Brazilian metal band Sepultura. It was released on June 24, 2011 by independent German record label Nuclear Blast Records. This is the band's first release on the label, marking their first album not released on SPV/Steamhammer since 2001's Nation.
Prime Evil is the sixth studio album by heavy metal band Venom, and the first not to feature bassist and vocalist Conrad ""Cronos"" Lant. It is also the first in a series of three albums with former Atomkraft bassist and vocalist Tony Dolan as a band member and composer.
The Worst is the fourth and final studio album by the Brazilian extreme metal band Sarcófago. Unlike early Sarcófago releases, this album is more death metal oriented. Wagner Lamounier appears on the album cover. The Worst sees the band slowing down in relation to the speed-oriented Hate, and having a better grasp of drum programming. Minelli and Lamounier saw this record as a ""summation"" of their career.
Black Metal is the second album by English heavy metal band Venom. It was released in November 1982, during the great flourishing of metal music in the UK that was the new wave of British heavy metal, and is considered a major influence on the thrash metal, death metal and black metal scenes that emerged in the 1980s and early 1990s. Although lending its name to the latter genre, today the album is often regarded as thrash metal rather than black metal. AllMusic has described it as ""thrash metal"". Nevertheless, its lyrics and imagery were a major influence on the early Norwegian black metal scene. The original cover art was made by the band's bassist and singer Conrad ""Cronos"" Lant.
Death Cult Armageddon is the sixth studio album by Norwegian symphonic black metal band Dimmu Borgir, released on 9 September 2003. It has since sold over 100,000 copies in the United States; the first album under Nuclear Blast to do so; and debuted on the Billboard 200 chart at number 169. The song ""Progenies of the Great Apocalypse"" is released as single with accompanying music video. Parts of the album were recorded with the Prague Philharmonic Orchestra. This would also be the last album to have Nicholas Barker on drums. It also features guest vocals by Abbath Doom Occulta. The artwork within the album displays what appears to be an industrial factory, inside of which the band members are living out their fantasies, some of which are similar to scenes seen in the music video for Progenies of the Great Apocalypse. Artwork was done by Swiss artist Joachim Luetke. Most of the songs have a common apocalyptic theme, and the track ""Unorthodox Manifesto"" features a rhythmic motif taken from the Terminator films. This is also their first album to feature their third and current logo.
Folk-Lore is the third studio album by the Irish Celtic metal band Cruachan released in 2002 on Hammerheart Records.
Irreligious is the second studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band, Moonspell, released 1996. It features some of the best-known songs of the band, such as ""Opium"", ""Ruin & Misery"", ""Awake!"" and ""Full Moon Madness"". The latter is usually the closing song during almost every Moonspell concert, which over time has become a characteristic of their concerts. Before the song begins, Fernando Ribeiro often makes the sign of the circle (symbolizing Moon) over the crowd. The 3rd track ""Awake!"" features a recording of Aleister Crowley reading his poem 'The Poet'.
(This article is about the EP by Destruction. For the episode of Doctor Who, see The Keys of Marinus.) Sentence of Death is an EP and the debut release by German thrash metal band Destruction, released on 10 November 1984 by Steamhammer Records. The release is more black metal oriented than the band's later albums.
...From the Pagan Vastlands is the third demo by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was recorded at the Warrior Studio in December 1993 and released in February 1994 by Pagan Records. A song titled From the Pagan Vastlands appeared on their debut album, Sventevith (Storming Near the Baltic). Frontman, Darski was 17 at the time of its recording and release.
Dying Alive is a two-disc live album by German thrash metal band Kreator. Released in 2013 by Nuclear Blast it contains 24 tracks recorded at Turbinehalle in Oberhausen, Germany. It was also released as a Deluxe Edition containing the 2-CD set and a DVD.
Vargnatt is the debut demo tape by Norwegian black metal band Ulver, issued in 1993 independently. The cassette was limited to 200 hand-numbered copies. The demo was self-produced by Ulver, and recorded in the Norwegian trollforest, between October 15-17, 1993. Their music and style was consistent with the early Norwegian black metal subculture during the early 1990s. However some have noted the avant-garde, jazz, rock and gothic influences that would later shape the band's sound. The archaic Dano-Norwegian lyrics were greatly influenced by Scandinavian folktales and inspired by Baroque poets such as Ludvig Holberg and the hymn-writer Thomas Kingo. Summing up the demo, webzine, Avantgarde Metal, concluded: “Vargnatt is the primeval quintessance of Ulver's Trilogie; the satanic energy, haunting yet calm beauty and romantic melancholy of the mighty Norwegian Forests, and those who dwell there in. An inspiring soundtrack for a solemn and hateful stroll through the woods at dusk.” In 2003 the demo was significantly remastered, and reissued through Infinite Vinyl in 10” white vinyl format, and limited to 1000 hand-numbered copies. The release included additional photos & artwork as well as sleeve notes from Chris Bruni. The demo was later included in Ulver’s Trolsk Sortmetall 1993-1997 - a retrospective box set, issued in 2014 via Century Media. Limited to 5000 copies, the set collects Ulver's first demo Vargnatt, together with their first three full-length albums, Bergtatt, Kveldssanger and Nattens madrigal with a bonus 4-track rehearsal of songs from Nattens madrigal, recorded in the summer of 1995.
1993–2003: 1st Decade in the Machines is a remix album commissioned by Ulver, issued on April 29, 2003 via Jester Records. The album celebrates Ulver's ten year anniversary and features remixes by Ulver, Alexander Rishaug, Information, The Third Eye Foundation, Upland, Bogdan, Raczynski, Martin Horntveth, Neotropic, A. Wiltzie vs. Stars Of The Lid, Fennesz, Pita, Jazzkammer, V/Vm and Merzbow.
Blodsvept (English: Shrouded in Blood) is the sixth studio album by Finnish folk metal band Finntroll. The album was released on March 22, 2013. The album features artwork by band member Samuli ""Skrymer"" Ponsimaa, including a painting for each song on the album.
Epitome of Torture is the fourteenth album by the German thrash metal band Sodom.
Redemption at the Puritan's Hand is the seventh studio album by the Irish pagan metal band Primordial, recorded at Foel Studio, Wales, with producer Chris Fielding and released on April 22, 2011. The album charted in Finland (#23), Germany (#31), Sweden (#54) and Switzerland (#90).
Spectral Visions of Mental Warfare is the seventh full-length album of the black metal band Nargaroth. This album, a collaboration with Trähn (Nychts) has been recorded in Eastern Germany and Switzerland.
Svartir sandar is the fourth album by the Icelandic band Sólstafir. It was released on October 14, 2011 through Season of Mist. A music video for the song Fjara was made in July of 2011 and released in January 2012.
Umskiptar (Old Norse for Metamorphosis) is the ninth studio album by the Norwegian one-man band Burzum, released on 21 May 2012 through Byelobog Productions. It has been described by Varg Vikernes as a ""return to the roots"", with a priority on atmosphere. The album's lyrics are taken from an Old Norse poem entitled Völuspá. The album was leaked two months before its release date, due, according to Vikernes, to a former PR agent of his having ""sent promotional copies of the entire album to left wing extremist magazines"" without his knowledge or consent. The cover art is taken from the painting Nótt by Norwegian painter Peter Nicolai Arbo.
Advent of... (full title Advent of the Nuclear Baphomet) is the fifth EP released by the Singaporean black metal artist Impiety. It was recorded in January 2011, and released in February 15, 2011. The mini-album was made available in super jewel box through Pulverised Records. Vinyl version was released by Agonia Records under licensed from Pulverised, limited to 800 copies with first 300 copies pressed on green, brown haze vinyl and the remaining 500 on regular olive green color. Both LP came with insert, A2 size poster and engraved B-sides.
Alcest / Les Discrets (or Les Discrets / Alcest) is a split EP by French shoegazing bands Alcest and les Discrets, released on November 30, 2009 by Prophecy Productions. This is the release debut of les Discrets. Its leader Fursy Teyssier have previously worked with Alcest leader Neige numerous times. It is the first work of drummer Winterhalter featuring Alcest; he would later join Alcest the same year, becoming a member of both bands, before leaving les Discrets in 2013 to focus on Alcest.
Battle's Clarion is the second full-length studio release from Texan black metal band Averse Sefira. Originally released by Lost Disciple in 2001, it was picked up and reissued by Candlelight in 2007 (Candelight being their label now).
Blood for the Master is the fifth studio album by American blackened death metal band Goatwhore.
Kaos Kommand 696 is the third album by Singaporean black metal band Impiety, released in 2002 through Osmose Productions. The album is available in both regular and limited edition, the latter which contains two bonus tracks. Digipak version is limited to 4,000 copies and 500 on vinyl with the same bonus tracks. The artwork on the left is for digipak release while regular cover is on the right.
Last of the Line is the sixth studio album by English folk metal band Forefather. It was officially released on 19 December 2011 by their own record label, Seven Kingdoms.
Les Voyages de L'Âme (English: The Journeys of the Soul) is the third studio album by Alcest, released on January 6, 2012 by Prophecy Productions. ""Autre Temps"" was also released in a different version as a single, and was made into a music video. The album has been described as a musical synthesis of the previous two albums, blending shoegaze, post-rock, and black metal influences.
Salve the Goat...Iblis Exelsi is the debut EP by Singaporean black metal band Impiety. It was released in 1993 through the Dutch-based label Shivadarshana Records. Later made available as violet-colored 7"" in the United States by Fudgeworthy Records. The EP was recorded 15 September 1993 at The Womb of Leftness, Studio 666; compared to the preceding release, it was ""recorded at a better studio with a more 'metal-educated' engineer. But likewise, most of the mixing and editing was personally done by me.""
Terroreign (Apocalyptic Armageddon Command) is the sixth studio album by Singaporean black metal band Impiety, released in 2009 through Agonia Records. The album is made available as regular jewel case, limited edition digipak with sticker and vinyl. The latter is pressed to 750 limited copies; 100 on white, 400 on regular black LP and the rest 250 copies as picture disc. All vinyl version comes with an A3 landscape poster of Impiety, with some bearing Shyaithan's signature. Both Intro and Outro are composed and performed by Nuclear Holocausto Vengeance of Beherit.
The Compendium Archive 1996 - 2006 is a compilation album by American metal band Agalloch. It was released through Licht Von Dämmerung Arthouse on March 20, 2010. The album was limited to 250 hand-numbered copies, and was sold exclusively at the band's two Romanian gigs in March 2010.
Worshippers of the Seventh Tyranny is the seventh full-length album by Singaporean extreme metal band Impiety, released in 2011 through Agonia Records. It features Fabio Zperandio of Ophiolatry as guest on all lead guitars. It is the first Impiety album to consist of a single, 38 - minute - long track. The song employs doom metal approach as opposed to the band previous releases that focused on speed and brutality. The album is released on several formats, including regular jewel case, digipak and vinyl. Earlier pressings come with a t - shirt while limited edition LP is pressed on marble vinyl, which is limited to 100 copies. Another 566 copies are available as dark maroon finish. Also, some version comes with Shyaithan's autograph.
Faustian Echoes is an EP by American metal band Agalloch, released on June 26, 2012 by Agalloch's own label Licht von Dämmerung Arthouse. It is actually a single, two-part song over 21 minutes in length, making it the longest song Agalloch has ever written. The song is based on Johann Wolfgang von Goethe’s play Faust. Regarding the theme of Faustian Echoes, Agalloch vocalist/guitarist John Haughm said, ""The lyrics are taken directly from an English translation of Goethe's Faust. We used select phrases and film samples to create the narrative which, together, outlines the backbone of the original story."" The film samples are from Jan Svankmajer's 1994 film Faust. Agalloch released Faustian Echoes in conjunction with their summer 2012 North American tour, making it first available via streaming and digital download. Vinyl and CD versions were only available at the shows during the tour, and via mail order after the tour. The cover art features the etching Faust Lisant (Faust Reading) by Salvador Dalí.
Geliebte des Regens (Beloved of the Rain) is the third full-length album by black metal band Nargaroth. It was released through No Colours Records in November 2003. It is Kanwulf's favorite Nargaroth album.
Jahreszeiten  (""Seasons"") is the sixth full-length release of the black metal band Nargaroth. The songs on the album don't deal with the divisions of the year, as specified by Ash: [The songs] are dealing with the seasons of love, known to nearly everybody of us. The love for an other person, which in the beginning blossoms like the spring to fully unfold in the summer, until, with the time passing, the autumn casts the first shadows and doubts, which can turn into hatred and contempt in the winter. On the vinyl version of the album, each song contains a spoken introduction. These monologues, along with the prologue are fragments from Wagner's 1996 book, ""Between the Stones"".The album contains the following dedication: Dedicated to the memory of Dr. H.-J. Koraus (18.02.1946 ~ 23.11.2007) and to Dr. M. Wernado, who inspired and escorted me on my way during the last five years, in many peaceless moments in the experiences of a man and his self-despise, and without whose help I would have never found to myself again.
Martyr Immortal is the second studio album by the American rock band Pulling Teeth. The album was released on November 27, 2007 through Deathwish Inc.
Outbreak of Evil is a Split EP by thrash metal bands Bestial Mockery, Vomitor, Nocturnal & Toxic Holocaust released under Witching Metal Records.
Overcome or Burn Forever in Hell/Arachnid Terror Sampler is an EP by black metal band Paradox combined with a sampler album featuring fourteen different artists, released in 2002 by the band's own Tarantula Promotions label. Limited to five hundred copies, it contains two songs by Paradox, which were the final recordings of that band, along with a compilation of fourteen songs previously recorded by their respective artists. The album's musical style was described as extreme metal, with the various genres on the album falling under black metal, death metal, grindcore, deathcore, and doom metal. Apart from Paradox, the other artists represented on the album include Soul Embraced, Sanctifica, Frosthardr, Frost Like Ashes, Kekal, Pantokrator, and Tortured Conscience, among others. According to Paradox founder Michael ""John Tarantula"", the release was a result of his newsletter project, Fangs of Life, which he published through his Tarantula Promotions label.
Paranoid Delusions/Paradise Illusions is the third studio album by the American rock band Pulling Teeth. The album was released on March 31, 2009 through Deathwish Inc. The cover art for the vinyl edition of Paranoid Delusions/Paradise Illusions features a lenticular image that shifts from ""a serene, forested landscape populated solely by a languishing maiden"" to a ""nightmarish, zombiefied nuclear scenario,"" Jay DiNitto of Noisecreep said.
Rasluka Part I is an EP by the black metal band Nargaroth. Together with Rasluka Part II, they form the ""Rasluka"" (Russian for ""farewell"") series.
Rasluka Part II is an EP by the black metal band Nargaroth. Together with Rasluka Part I, they form the ""Rasluka"" (Russian for ""farewell"") series.
Toxic Holocaust / Inepsy is a split EP by thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust and punk band Inepsy, released under Tankcrimes Records.
Toxic Holocaust / Midnight is a Split EP by thrash metal bands Midnight and Toxic Holocaust released under Relapse Records. Track 1 is by Toxic Holocaust and track 2 is by Midnight. The album's profits were donated to help the Japanese Tsunami victims.
Toxic Holocaust / Oprichniki is a Split EP by thrash metal bands Oprichniki and Toxic Holocaust released in 2001. Tracks 1 & 2 is by Toxic Holocaust and tracks 3 & 4 is by Oprichniki.
...And the Seventh His Soul Detesteth is a 2013 studio album by Norwegian band Aeternus.
Blasphemy, Mayhem, War is a Split EP by thrash metal bands Evil Damn, Chainsaw Killer & Toxic Holocaust released under Warhymns Records.
Brazilian Slaughter 2006 is a live concert video album by Toxic Holocaust, released in 2008 under Mutilation Records and Unsilent Records, recorded in Brazil.
Don't Burn the Witch... is a split EP by thrash metal bands Toxic Holocaust, Minotaur, Evil Angel and Goat Messiah released under Midnight Records.
From the Ashes of Nuclear Destruction is a 2013 compilation album by thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust. The album is compiled of singles and rarities, such as demo versions from studio albums and rare singles from the various split albums they have released.
Implements of Mass Destruction / Nuclear Apocalypse:666 is a Split EP by thrash metal bands Hellacaust and Toxic Holocaust released in 2002.
Satanic Blood is the full-length debut album by American black metal band Von. It was released on October 31, 2012 via the band's own label, Von Records. It is the band's first release since their hiatus in 1992 and subsequent reunion in 2010. The album mostly contains the reworked versions of songs in the band's 1992 demo, Satanic Blood. It does not feature the band's original vocalist and guitarist, Goat, who left the band just after the reunion.
Speed n' Spikes Volume 1 is a split EP by thrash metal bands Blüdwülf and Toxic Holocaust released under Relapse Records.
Sôl austan, Mâni vestan (Old Norse for East of the Sun, West of the Moon) is the tenth studio album by the Norwegian act Burzum. It was announced in February 2013 and released through Byelobog Productions on 27 May 2013. It is Burzum's third instrumental electronic album, after Dauði Baldrs (1997) and Hliðskjálf (1999), which were both recorded while Vikernes was in prison. The rest of Burzum's albums have been mostly black metal. Vikernes has likened Sôl austan, Mâni vestan to the music of Tangerine Dream and the previous electronic releases by Burzum. The album also will be further exploring the Pagan spiritual concepts, which were cited as influences for the genre change. The songs from the album are the soundtrack to the film ""ForeBears"", which was produced and directed by Vikernes and his wife. Like many of Burzum's albums, this one also has a famous painting as its cover art: The Rape of Proserpina by Spanish painter Ulpiano Checa.
Thrashbeast From Hell is a Split EP by thrash metal bands Nocturnal & Toxic Holocaust released under Witchhammer Productions. The album was released on Tape limited to only 500 hand numbered copies.
Κατά τον δαίμονα εαυτού (transliterated: Katá ton Daímona Eaf̱toú) is the eleventh full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ.
Abyssus Abyssum Invocat is compilation album released by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The release includes two EPs (Conjuration and Slaves Shall Serve) plus five previously unreleased live recordings.
Blow Your Trumpets Gabriel is the seventh EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released on December 4, 2013 through bands record label New Aeon Musick. Blow Your Trumpets Gabriel was limited to 2000 copies, available only through Behemoth Webstore & Nuclear Blast Store, most copies bought through Behemoth's webstore were signed by the band. The EP features three tracks, including title song, and two non-album tracks ""If I Were Cain"", along with cover of Siekiera's ""Ludzie wschodu"".
The Serpent & the Sphere is the fifth and final album by American metal band Agalloch. It was released on May 13, 2014 in the U.S., followed by releases on May 16 in Germany and May 19 in Europe.
Dark Star on the Right Horn of the Crescent Moon is the third studio album by Ukrainian black metal band Blood of Kingu. It was released on August 28, 2014, under Season of Mist.
Massive Cauldron of Chaos is the sixth studio album by Norwegian black metal band 1349. It was released on September 29, 2014 through Season of Mist. The album marks a break in the usual trend for the band to release album artwork in a jet black colour, instead using white.
Sun in the House of the Scorpion is the second album by Ukrainian black metal band Blood of Kingu. It was released under Candlelight Records in May 24, 2010.
The World We Left Behind is the seventh and last studio album by American psychedelic black metal band Nachtmystium, released in August 2014.
Trücizna is the fourth studio album by the Polish black metal band Witchmaster. It was released on April 10, 2009, through Agonia Records.
Ótta  (an old time form : the time of the day from 3 to 6 AM ) is the fifth album by the Icelandic heavy metal band Sólstafir. It was released on August 29, 2014 through the record label Season of Mist.
From the Very Depths is the fourteenth studio album by English heavy metal band Venom. It was released by Spinefarm on 25 January 2015.
Instinctus Bestialis is the ninth full-length studio album by Norwegian black metal act Gorgoroth. It was released on June 8, 2015 by Soulseller Records. It was also released digitally, as well as on digipak CD in a limited first pressing, limited black vinyl LP and limited picture vinyl LP. It is the first album to feature vocalist Atterigner and was the last to feature bassist Bøddel, who died from cancer four months after the album's release.
Where Greater Men Have Fallen is the eighth full-length album by Irish metal band Primordial. The album was released on November 25, 2014 through Metal Blade Records. A music video for the track 'Babel's Tower' was released on November 24, 2014. The album reached #24 on the Top Heatseekers chart, #24 on Billboard's Top New Artist Chart and #43 on Billboard's Hard Music Chart, and #104 on Billboard's Independent Albums Chart.
Memorial is the seventh studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band, Moonspell, released on April 24, 2006 by SPV. The album is available in two versions: a standard edition and a limited 'digipack' edition with the ""Atlantic"" bonus track. On January 16, 2007, Memorial was certified gold by the Associação Fonográfica Portuguesa for selling over 10,000 copies in Portugal. This is the first time a Portuguese heavy metal group has received this award. Each of the limited versions and the standard edition end with a different song, but on every version the final track ends with a 6-minute wolves-howling outro (""The Sleep of the Sea""), hence there are actually two official versions of ""Best Forgotten"".
The Beginning is a compilation album by Mercyful Fate released in 1987 consisting of the Nuns Have No Fun EP and different versions of 5 tracks from the album ""Melissa"".
Urd is the ninth full-length album by the Norwegian metal band Borknagar. Released on March 26, 2012, it is the first album to feature ICS Vortex and Vintersorg sharing lead vocals. It also marks the final recording with Borknagar by David Kinkade, who joined Soulfly after the recording and subsequently retired from music.
9 is the seventh and final album by Danish heavy metal band Mercyful Fate. 9 was recorded during February and March 1999, and was released on June 15, 1999 on Metal Blade Records. This album continues the heavier sound that was introduced in their previous album Dead Again, and also marks the return of the Satanic and Occult-based lyrical themes which were prevalent during the band's first incarnation.
A Journey's End is the second album of the Irish black metal band Primordial. It was originally released in 1998. Re-released in 2005 by Candlelight Records with Imrama as a two disc set. Re-released again on September 1, 2009 in Europe via Metal Blade Records (and August29 in Germany, Switzerland and Austria) as a double digipak package in aprecious black linen slipcase with glossy golden hot foil print, containing asix-page digipak with the original artwork, the two discs and a 16-page bookletwith new liner notes and additional photos.
Angst, självdestruktivitetens emissarie is the third album by Shining. It was released on Avantgarde Music, in 2002. An LP edition was released, limited to 500 copies.
Day of Reckoning is the twelfth studio album by German thrash metal band Destruction. It was released on 18 February 2011 in Europe and March 8, 2011 in North America via Nuclear Blast. The first limited edition of the album does not have the band's logo on the booklet while the vinyl version and second pressing of the CD show a red Destruction logo on it. This is the first album to feature their new drummer Vaaver. The first statements from the band are promising, for the oldschool fans, a more fast and turbulent album than the 2008 studio record D.E.V.O.L.U.T.I.O.N. that will go more 'back to the roots'. On December 18, 2010 in Portugal, they played ""Hate Is My Fuel"" for the first time. Day of Reckoning sold over 800 copies in its first week in the U.S.
De occulta philosophia is the debut album by Ukrainian black metal band Blood of Kingu. Originally released under Supernal Music, the band has since signed to Debemur Morti Productions and re-released the album with new artwork and packaging on August 28, 2009.
Destruction is an EP by German thrash metal band Destruction. It was the first release self-financed by Mike Sifringer on the Brain Butcher label after Schmier's departure. The period of Brain Butcher releases is often called ""Neo-Destruction."" This album is the first of the three ""Neo-Destruction"" albums.
Fallen is the eighth studio album by the Norwegian artist Burzum, released on 7 March 2011. The cover art is taken from the painting Elegy (1899) by French painter William-Adolphe Bouguereau.
Jihad / Freezing Moon is a split album with music by the black metal bands The Meads of Asphodel and Mayhem. Tracks one through six were performed by The Meads of Asphodel. Tracks seven and eight were performed by Mayhem. Tracks five and six are only available on the CD version. The release features two live Mayhem rehearsals from 1991 with Dead on vocals. The Meads showcased songs with a lyrical concept on Middle Eastern terrorism. The track, ""Grisly Din of Killing Steel"", has the Twin Towers plane impact sounds over the narrative. This was the last release to feature Jaldaboath in The Meads of Asphodel. The split was released in a limited 10” vinyl version and a CD version with two bonus tracks.
Moribund is the second album by Norwegian black metal band Koldbrann released in 2006. It features guest appearances by Iblis and L. Wachtfels from Endstille.
Outcast is the eighth studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator. It was released by G.U.N. Records in 1997. This album featured more gothic rock and industrial influences than earlier Kreator, retaining little of the thrash metal from previous years.
Pandemonic Incantations is the third studio album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The album was recorded during August and September 1997 at Selani Studio and was mixed in October 1997. The album was then released in 1998 by Solistitium Records, whilst Behemoth were still in their period of transition from black metal to blackened death metal. A remastered digipak version was released by Metal Mind Records with 6 bonus tracks, including 5 live tracks recorded during the European tour in Toulouse, France on February 27, 1999 and a studio version of With Spell of Inferno (Mefisto). It is known that on the original version of the album, the eighth track is followed by 57 tracks of silence. The outro is on track number 66.
Sventevith (Storming Near the Baltic) is the debut studio album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released in April 1995 by Pagan Records. It has since been re-released through numerous other labels. The album inside cover artwork shows The Temple of Swarog by Stanisław Jakubowski.
Volcano is the fifth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was released on 25 October 2002, through Moonfog Productions. The album is one of the band's more successful records, having won several awards including the Norwegian Grammy for Best Metal Album, Alarm awards for Metal Album of the Year, Song of the Year for ""Fuel for Hatred"" and an Oslo award for Best Overall Album. A video was made for the single ""Fuel for Hatred"".
First Spell is the first full-length album by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna. A vinyl LP version, limited to 500 copies, was released in 1995 by Damnation Records. A cassette version was released by Isengard Distribution in 1994.
Shadows of the Sun is the seventh studio album by the Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced by Ulver, the album was issued in October, 2007, via Jester Records and The End Records. Officially announced on July 13, 2007, Shadows of the Sun received critical acclaim on release, and was described as ""dark and tragic,"" with ""soothing electronics and natural percussion,"" and featured contributions from Pamelia Kurstin on theremin and Austrian white noise musician Christian Fennesz, adding supplemental shimmer; helping Ulver to correspond with their vision on the final product. The release of Shadows of the Sun was delayed in Europe and the United States, possibly caused by problems with the vinyl manufacturing. The album was distributed by Plastic Head, the UK's 10th largest distributor in Europe. The entire album was leaked to the Internet on September 17, 2007. The track listing and the album sleeve was released to the public in a press statement by Ulver's American record label The End Records, and a teaser for the song ""Vigil"" was released on MySpace on August 29, 2007. On August 30, Ulver announced a release party for the album to be held at the Europa Night Club in Brooklyn, NY on September 20, 2007 with Kristoffer Rygg and Tore Ylwizaker were DJing, while The Austerity Program and Lapdog of Satan were playing live. On 13 September, Jester Records made it possible to pre-order the album, including a limited vinyl edition, with alternate front cover by David D'Andrea. The collector's deal also included a 10"" red vinyl edition of A Quick Fix of Melancholy. The End Records also released a special deal consisting of the CD edition of the album, a T-shirt, and a screen print by Tomi Lahdesmaki in a limited run of 200. On MySpace, ""Vigil"" was replaced by the song ""Funebre,"" on 14 September 2007. ""Solitude"" is a Black Sabbath cover; the original version appears on their 1971 album Master of Reality, while ""Eos"" is a revisited version of ""Gravferd,"" from the soundtrack of the Norwegian film Uno. ""What Happened?"" contains approximately 1 minute and 40 seconds of silence at the end. The front photo is taken from the 1978 October issue of Natural History Magazine. Shadows of the Sun is the first album without an appearance from Håvard Jørgensen, a full-time member on Ulver's first four albums and a guest on their last two. In February 2008 the album won the Oslo Awards for album of the year 2007. The album was also voted best album of 2007 at the website Sonic Frontiers. In December 2014, Shadows of the Sun was released as a sheet music album by Raven Music Editions. All the songs, except for the Black Sabbath cover ""Solitude"", were included in the songbook.
The Great Silver Eye: An Anthology is a compilation album by Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell, released on June 29, 2007. The album contains the band's most well known songs.
Under Satanæ is a compilation album by Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell. It contains rerecordings of early material, some of it from their 1994 work Under the Moonspell, and the rest from their demo tapes Anno Satanæ (hence Under + Satanæ) and Serpent Angel from their debut demo (under name Morbid God).
The Silence Of December is the first full-length album from Deinonychus (band). It was released in May 1995, yet recorded in 1994. The album was released on Cacophonous Records from the UK.
Kurbads is the fifth studio album by the Latvian folk metal band Skyforger. The album was released on April 26, 2010 in Europe and on May 11, 2010 in the United States through Metal Blade Records.
Shatter is an EP by Swiss extreme metal band Triptykon, and was released 25 October 2010. The EP consists of the bonus track ""Shatter"" from the Japanese edition of Eparistera Daimones, as well as other songs from the recording sessions of that album, including a newly mastered version of their demo ""Crucifixus"". Tracks 4 and 5 are live versions of Celtic Frost songs, recorded during Triptykon's headliner performance at the Roadburn Festival in Tilburg, The Netherlands, on 16 April 2010. ""Dethroned Emperor"" features guest lead vocals by Nocturno Culto (Darkthrone, Sarke).
Spears of Heaven is the eleventh full length studio album released by the black metal band Graveland. It was released on No Colours Records in 2009.
30 Years Sodomized: 1982–2012 is a three-disc, two-LP box set by the German thrash metal band Sodom, released on June 25, 2012. The set includes the albums Official Bootleg: The Witchhunter Decade, a collection of live recordings and unreleased demos, and 30 Years' War, a retrospective selection of studio tracks personally compiled by Tom Angelripper.
At the Sight of the Apocalypse Dragon is the debut album by black metal band Midvinter. The album was produced by Andy La Rocque. The album was reissued by Frostscald Records in 2009 with different artwork.
Independent Nature 2002-2007 is a compilation album released by Ontario blackened doom metal band Woods of Ypres in 2009. The only compilation released by Woods of Ypres, this album was both the band's first release after relocating to Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario in 2008 and their last full-length release through Krankenhaus Records. Four songs each from Woods of Ypres' first three albums (Against the Seasons: Cold Winter Songs from the Dead Summer Heat, Pursuit of the Sun & Allure of the Earth, and Woods III: The Deepest Roots and Darkest Blues) were included on this CD, and were presented in chronological order, documenting notable tracks from the band's early black metal-centric era.
Midvinternatt is the debut demo recording from Swedish black metal band Midvinter. The demo was originally released in 1994 on cassette tape.
PhantasmaChronica is the first album by the Austrian single-man metal band Korovakill after it changed its name to Chryst. The album consists of a single song in multiple movements.
Abzu is the sixth studio album by American black metal band Absu. It was released in 2011 on Candlelight Records. It features new members in the form of guitarist Vis Crom and bassist/vocalist Ezezu; although Ezezu did join the band after the recording of Absu, this is his first studio recording with Absu.
Exercises in Futility' is the third studio album by Polish black metal band Mgła. It was released on 4 September 2015, through Northern Heritage Records. Featuring ""a raw, melodic black metal"" style that was compared to those of Watain and early Burzum, the album is regarded as ""the biggest and most impactful release of the band's 15-year career."" The band embarked a North American tour following the album's release.
Iron Dawn is the fifth EP by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at Endarker Studio in March 2011 and released that May by Regain Records on CD and limited vinyl.
Satanica is the fourth studio album released in 1999 by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. Much of the music in this release is death metal with influences of black metal music, also commonly known as blackened death metal. It was recorded at the Starcraft Stimulation Studios and mastered in Warsaw, Poland in 1999.
Sovran is Draconian's sixth studio album released October 30, 2015, through Napalm Records. It's the first album with new singer Heike Langhans (:LOR3L3I:, ISON) after the departure of Lisa Johansson in 2011. It's also the last album to feature bassist Fredrik Johansson, who left the band in April, 2016. A music video for ""Stellar Tombs"" was released on January 29, 2016.
Tiurida (meaning ""Glory"") is the fifth studio album by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach, released in January 2011 via Napalm Records. It was recorded with the same session musicians as the previous two Falkenbach records, Ok nefna tysvar Ty (2003) and Heralding - The Fireblade (2005). It was released as a jewelcase, digipack, deluxe limited edition (containing the digipack plus a Falkenbach logo pendant), vinyl (in three variants - black, golden and white vinyl - and with different cover artwork) and download.
Triumph of Death is a demo tape by the Swiss extreme metal band Hellhammer. It was released in July 1983. It was recorded by producer Rol Fuchs in the band's rehearsal room on portable equipment sometime in June 1983, along with the material for the unreleased Death Fiend demo. The two demos were typically combined into one, simply called Triumph of Death. Along with Hellhammer's other demos, it had a major influence on the emerging death metal and black metal genres.
Alive in Torment is a live limited shape EP by the Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was recorded in Stuttgart, Germany on 4 April 2001, during the tour supporting their fifth studio album Puritanical Euphoric Misanthropia.
World Misanthropy is a live DVD set by the Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was released on 28 May 2002 as a two disc set, with early pressings featuring the bonus CD, a VHS and the bonus disc separately as a limited edition clear 12"" vinyl with white and green streaked spots with only 2000 copies pressed. The first disc was filmed during the tour to support the band's fifth studio album Puritanical Euphoric Misanthropia, while the second disc is a compilation of videos from previous tours and other media.
Agalloch / Nest is a split EP by American metal band Agalloch and Finnish neofolk band Nest. It was released on August 2, 2004 by The End as a 10"" picture disc limited to 1,000 copies. Agalloch's ""The Wolves of Timberline"" is a neo-folk piece, utilizing a contemporary classical structure with acoustic guitars, mandolin, and cello. This track was only released on this split. Nest's ""Last Vestige of Old Joy"" showcased their trademark style with traditional Finnish instruments and included vocal and acoustic guitar contributions from Agalloch members John Haughm and Don Anderson. Aslak Tolonen of Nest provided the artwork for both sides.
Blood Inside is the sixth full-length studio album by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced by Ulver, together with Ronan Chris Murphy, the album was recorded and mixed in early 2004, and issued in June 2005 via Jester Records. The album see Ulver return to more classical arrangements and instrumentation. The coda on song “It Is Not Sound"" is based on Toccata and Fugue in D Minor by Bach and the lyrics for ""Christmas"" were adapted from the poem of the same name by Portuguese author Fernando Pessoa, written in 1922. A video clip for ""It Is Not Sound"" was issued on May 2, 2005, via The End Records’ website, along with audio samples from Blood Inside.
European Legions is a compilation album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. Tracks 1 to 7 are live tracks, and tracks 8 to 12 are pre-production tracks from the Grand Declaration of War sessions.
Intermezzo II is the second EP by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was released on 10 May 1999, through Moonfog Productions.
Live in Leipzig is a live album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. It was recorded at the Eiskeller club in Leipzig, Germany on 26 November 1990 but not released until 1993. The songs performed during the concert were from the demo Pure Fucking Armageddon, Deathcrush (1987) and the as-yet-unrecorded De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas (1994). It was one of the band's few official releases with Dead as vocalist.
Mediolanum Capta Est is a live album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem, recorded in Milan. The Latin title of the album supposedly means Milan has been captured"".
Nemesis Divina (Latin for ""divine nemesis"") is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was released on 22 April 1996, through Moonfog Productions. The band have described the album as ""darker"" and ""more aggressive"" than their previous work. A fully remastered edition was released in May 2016 to mark the 20th anniversary of the album.
Now, Diabolical is the sixth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was released on 17 April 2006, through Roadrunner Records.
Out from the Dark is an album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. It consists of a rehearsal from early 1991, but it was not officially released until 1996, by Black Metal Records. This was allegedly the final recording with the vocalist Dead, as he committed suicide on April 8, 1991. The songs performed were from the albums Deathcrush (1987) and De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas (1994); the latter had yet to be recorded at the time of this rehearsal.
Rebel Extravaganza is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was released in 1999, through Moonfog Productions.
Reinkaos (stylised as REINKAΩS) is the third and final studio album by Swedish black/melodic death metal band Dissection. The album was released through the band's own label Black Horizon Music, which they had formed ""out of the need of taking charge of our own business and making things our own way, without compromise"". Reinkaos is also available as autographed limited first edition: CD packed in exclusive embossed slipcase, limited to 1,001 hand-numbered copies signed by the band members; including the music video for ""Starless Aeon"" and a sticker.
Ten Horns – Ten Diadems is a compilation album by the Norwegian black metal band Satyricon.
The Best of Mercyful Fate is a compilation album by the band Mercyful Fate from years 1982-1984.
The Forest Is My Throne/Yggdrasill is a split album by Satyricon and Enslaved.
The Shadowthrone is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It was released on 12 September 1994, through Moonfog Productions.
Wolf's Lair Abyss is an EP by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. According to the band's website, it is the first part of Grand Declaration of War. The main riff of the last track, ""Symbols of Bloodswords"", is used in ""A Grand Declaration of War"" and ""View from Nihil (Part II)"". This EP was the first release by Mayhem without Euronymous, who was killed in 1993. The new line-up's material was far more technical than that of earlier incarnations of the band; apart from the intro, each track contains at least two separate sections and is played at a furious tempo. Also, while Maniac's vocal contributions to the band are generally controversial, his performance on this EP is routinely praised. This EP has often been cited as the best item in the new line-up's discography.
Et Fugit Intera Fugit Irreparabile Tempus is the debut album by the experimental black metal band Spektr. This album is often mistakenly titled ""No Longer Human Senses"", which is actually the album's subtitle.
Black Seared Heart is compilation of very early recordings by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna. Tracks 1-7 are labeled ""Pact I"" and originally appeared on Gehenna's 1993 demo, Black Seared Heart. It was released on a cassette, limited to 100 copies. They were recorded in June, 1993. Tracks 8 & 9 are labeled ""Pact II"". These songs were recorded in January, 1994 for an album which was never completed, the two included on this compilation (""A Witch is Born"" & ""Night of the Serpent's Judgment"") were re-mixed on an old portable four-track home recorder with the addition of Sarcana's keyboard parts as the original versions only contained guitar, bass and drum tracks. Both of these tracks would later be re-recorded with a much different sound and released on ""Seen Through the Veils of Darkness (The Second Spell)"". Track 10 is labeled ""Pact III."" This track is from an old rehearsal cassette that was recorded even before the demo.
Carelian Satanist Madness is an album by Finnish black metal band Satanic Warmaster. It was released on June 30, 2005 through No Colours Records. The album was recorded on a four analogue track during March and April 2005. ""Carelian"" stands for Karelia, an area between Finland and Russia. Digipack version limited to 1000 copies. LP version limited to 1500 copies on black, red & white vinyl (500 copies each) & comes with A2 poster. MC version released in August 2006 through Tour-de-Garde Productions with different artwork limited to 500 hand-numbered copies.
Channeling the Quintessence of Satan is the fifth studio album release by Austrian black metal band Abigor. It was released in 1999.
Clandestine Blaze / Deathspell Omega – Split is an album released by the black metal bands Clandestine Blaze and Deathspell Omega in 2001.
Dead As Dreams is the only studio album by Weakling. It was recorded in 1998 and released in 2000, through the tUMULt record label, while the band itself ceased activity in 1999. The title of the album comes from a line in the movie Legend.
Engla Tocyme (The Coming of the English) is the third studio album by the English pagan metal band Forefather. It was recorded from September to November 2001 and released in 2002 by Angelisc Enterprises. In 2004 Karmageddon Media re-released the album with two bonus tracks.
Glorification is the first EP by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at The Abyss in May 1996 and released that September by Osmose Productions.
I.N.R.I. is the debut album by the Brazilian extreme metal band Sarcófago. It was recorded and released in July 1987. Originally self-released as a cassette with photocopied covers. This album was re-released numerous times, with three different covers: orange (classic), blue and brown skeleton. The 2002 CD re-release by Cogumelo Records has 15 tracks.
Opus IV is the third studio album release by Black metal band Abigor. It was released in 1996.
Scorn Defeat is the first full-length album by the Japanese black metal band Sigh, released in 1993 by Deathlike Silence Productions. It is the band's most traditional black metal album, taking on a uniquely disturbing and bold formula lyrically compared to their Scandinavian peers. The album takes its title from a line in the title track from Venom's 1981 album Welcome to Hell. On Scorn Defeat, the line itself is said on ""At My Funeral"".
Seen Through The Veils Of Darkness (The Second Spell) is the second full length album by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna. A vinyl LP version, limited to 1000, was released in 1995 by Necromantic Gallery Productions.
Supreme Immortal Art is the fourth studio album release by black metal band Abigor. It was released in 1998.
Verwüstung – Invoke the Dark Age is the first studio album release by Black metal band Abigor. It was released in 1994.
Warschau is the third live album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded in Warsaw, Poland in 2005 and released on January 23, 2006 by Regain Records, to commemorate ""15 years of Marduk."" A limited edition packaging with a bonus DVD of live performances was released later that year, on July 17. Warschau was the last live Marduk album to feature Emil Dragutinovic on drums.
Blue Miasma is the fifth studio album by black metal band Krieg. Krieg split up after the release of this album. Darkland Records released a vinyl version limited to 888 copies; the first 300 copies were blue.
Deep Into Time is the debut studio album by the English pagan metal band Forefather, released in 1999 on Angelisc Enterprises, the band's own record label. This album was later re-issued three times - in 2002 by Angelisc Enterprises with a bonus track ""These Lands"", in 2004 by Karmageddon Media with three bonus tracks including ""These Lands"" and in 2005 by Eisenwald Tonschmiede as an LP record (500 copies) including above-mentioned ""These Lands"" and one more song as bonus tracks.
Destruction Ritual is the second studio album by black metal band Krieg. It was recorded from 1999 to 2001. Duane ""Cryptic Winter"" Timlin did the drum work for the album. The guitar work was recorded at Vortex Sound Studio in New Jersey and drums & vocals at Studio One in Wisconsin. There was no bass played on this album.
Kill Yourself or Someone You Love is the second EP by black metal band Krieg. It was recorded live in Bitterfeld, Germany, in 2001.
Nekrotisk Inkvisition is the first album by Norwegian black metal band Koldbrann released in 2006.
Patrick Bateman is the third EP by black metal band Krieg. The title comes from the starring character of the novel American Psycho. The album was recorded at Winterblut Studio, Germany, in 2003.
Rise of the Imperial Hordes is the first studio album by black metal band Krieg. It was recorded in October & November of 1997 at Vortex Sound Studio. Blood Fire Death re-issued the album in 2001 with a Havohej cover, ""Enlightened Ones"", as bonus track. Zerstorungs Produktionen re-issued it in 2005; this re-issue was limited to 999 copies.
Scenes from Hell is the eighth full-length studio album by the Japanese extreme metal band Sigh. It is the band's first full-length recording to feature Dr. Mikannibal. On October 15, 2009 the band posted the album cover and set January 19, 2010 as the official release date. A music video was released for the song ""Prelude to the Oracle"".
Sono Lo Scherno is the fourth studio album by black metal band Krieg. It was recorded in 1998. Zerstorungs Productions released a vinyl version with a bonus track, ""Purteance"", limited to 999 copies.
The Black House is the third studio album by black metal band Krieg. Darkland Records released the vinyl version with a bonus track, ""Coronation"", and a poster limited to 500 blue copies.
Halo of Blood is the eighth studio album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom. It was released on June 7, 2013 in Europe and June 11 in North America on Nuclear Blast Records. In Japan, the album was released by Marquee Inc. on May 29, 2013. This would be the last album with guitarist Roope Latvala before he left the band in May 2015.
Evil 1999 is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Tulus. It was released in 1999, through Hammerheart Records.
Homecoming's March is the debut studio release by the Texan black metal band Averse Sefira. It was released in 1999 on the band's own label, Arrogare, and was produced by the band themselves with co-production by Stuart Lawrence (who would not figure in any of their other albums. The album is split into band-composed full-length songs and joining those songs are interludes (or ""aversions""), as created by ""effect artist"" Lady of the Evening Faces.
I Begin is the debut album by Norwegian black metal band God Seed. It was released on October 23, 2012 in North America and on October 30, 2012 in Europe.
Rehearsal Demo Nov 11 2011 was recorded by Sunn O))) at Southern Lord Caves in Los Angeles on November 11, 2011. It was mixed at 10 R. D. Montiboeufs in Paris, January 12, and was mastered by Brad Boatright. This album was a split release by Ideologic Organ & Southern Lord Recordings and was an edition of 1,500 copies on black vinyl. This album was only available on the band's June 2012 European tour and September 2012 US East Coast tour. ""Samples: ""Posetitel muzeya"" Lopushansky 1989.""
Silencing Machine is the sixth full-length album by black metal band Nachtmystium. It was released via Century Media Records in the United States on July 30, 2012. Limited edition includes an additional bonus track ""Ashes to Ashes"". This track is a rerecorded version of the same track on the Nachtmystium's 2004 album Demise.
Slaughtersun (Crown of the Triarchy) is the third studio album by Swedish black metal band Dawn. It was released in 1998.
Spiritual Genocide is the thirteenth studio album by German thrash metal band Destruction. The album is being released as a celebration of the bands 30th anniversary.
Old Mornings Dawn is the seventh full-length album by Summoning. With two bonus tracks contained by the box-set and forest green, white and orange vinyl double LP versions, this album is to the date the band's longest one. The cover art is based on George Hetzel's painting, Rocky Gorge. Silenius commented on the album's title: ""Old Mornings Dawn is no concept album, but this time we mostly experienced the stories and legends of Eärendil the mariner: half man half eldar, ancestor of the kings of Númenor, with the Silmaril of his forehead he became an immortal star. 4 songs are dealing with this topic. The lyrics of another two songs come from the poems ""City of Present Sorrow"" and ""Town of Dreams"", two very old poems by J. R. R. Tolkien written at a time when the first world war was raging. The rest of the lyrics came from unknown writers or are written by myself and as ever are closely woven to the Tolkien universe"".
Teethed Glory and Injury is the third studio album by the Irish black metal band Altar of Plagues produced by Jaime Gomez Arellano](Ghost B.C, Ulver etc.). It was released on April 30, 2013 through Candlelight Records and Profound Lore Records. Prior to the album's release, a music video was released for the track ""God Alone"", whence the album cover is derived.
The Mediator Between Head and Hands Must Be the Heart is the thirteenth studio album by the Brazilian metal band Sepultura. It was released on October 25, 2013 in Europe on October 29 in the United States via Nuclear Blast. The album is based on the 1927 science fiction film Metropolis; its title is a quote from the film. It is the band's first album to feature drummer Eloy Casagrande, and the first album by the band to be recorded in the United States since 1998's Against. The album was produced by Ross Robinson, who previously produced the band's 1996 album Roots.
The Satanist is the tenth album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The album was announced on 31 May 2013 and released on February 3, 2014 through Nuclear Blast and on February 4 in Poland via Metal Blade Records and Mystic Production, respectively. Release was preceded by digital download single ""Blow Your Trumpets Gabriel"" and 12"" EP under the same title released on December 4, 2013.
Betrayal, Justice, Revenge is the second studio album by the Finnish symphonic/folk metal band Kivimetsän Druidi. It was released in 2010 on Century Media.
Biało-czarna is the first album by Polish thrash metal band Kat & Roman Kostrzewski. It was released on 11 April 2011, by the label Mystic Production. The album's name is a wordplay on the term ""Biało-czerwona"" (White-and-red), which is used to refer to the Polish flag or anything representing Poland in general, i.e. the national football team or the army. Black replaces Red, as the black color is used to represent the Catholic church and its priests in black cassocks. The album cover features the Polish flag in greyscale, with a cross over the white eagle, symbolizing ""parasitic"" influence of the Church over the country together with the title. The lyrics as well revolve around common critiques of the Polish Catholic Church, and the Catholic Church in general, including child molestation, criminal impunity and corruption.
Blood on the Black Robe is the sixth studio album by the Irish Celtic metal band Cruachan. It was released in 2011 on Candlelight Records.
Serpents Unleashed is the fifth album by American extreme metal band Skeletonwitch. The album was released on October 29, 2013. This album was the last album released with original vocalist Chance Garnette, before he was fired from the band in early 2015 due to his problems with alcohol.
Upon the Viking Stallion is first self-released/independent demo of Summoning Limited to 50 copies.
Decision Day is the fifteenth studio album by the German thrash metal band Sodom, released on August 26, 2016.
I Worship Chaos is the ninth studio album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom. It was released on October 2, 2015. It is the first album since 2003's Hate Crew Deathroll not to feature guitarist Roope Latvala due to his departure from the band in May 2015, making this the band's first album as a four-piece group with Alexi Laiho handling all guitar duties. For the first time, the band did not use a commercial recording studio. Instead they opted to use a converted warehouse to enhance the ambiance of the sound. This is the first album since Something Wild that uses the standard C# tuning on two songs: ""Hold Your Tongue"" and ""Suicide Bomber"", while the rest of the songs use the drop B tuning.
All Shall Fall is the eighth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Immortal. The album was released in Europe on September 25, 2009, and in the US on October 6, 2009. The only album to feature bassist Apollyon and the last to feature vocalist/guitarist Abbath Doom Occulta.
Eschaton is the third album by British black metal band Anaal Nathrakh. Musically, the album continues in the vein of the previous album, Domine Non Es Dignus. Some reviewers have commented that the overall atmosphere and production are at the same time a step back towards the out-and-out ferocity of the band's debut. The album features guest appearances by Shane Embury (Embryonymous) on bass, and Attila Csihar (from Mayhem) performs vocals on ""Regression to the Mean"".
Eternal is the fifth album by the Swiss heavy metal band Samael, released on 19 July 1999 via Century Media.
Fallen Angels is the thirteenth studio album by English heavy metal band Venom. It was released by Spinefarm/Universal on 28 November 2011.
Hell is the twelfth studio album by heavy metal band Venom. It was released in 2008 through Universal. It is the first Venom album to feature La Rage on guitar and the last to feature Antton on drums, who left Venom in 2009 and was replaced by Danté.
Iconoclast is the second studio album by Australian black metal band Nazxul. The album, released through Moribund Records, was the band's first studio release in more than a decade, as their Black Seed EP was released in 1998.
Malice (Our Third Spell) is the third full length album by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna.
OM is a concept album by Negură Bunget, released on October 20, 2006, on the Code666 label. It was recorded in Negură Music Studio and produced, mixed and mastered by the band. A double LP of the album with a bonus track was released by Enucleation Records in 2008. Another double LP edition, remastered but without the bonus track, was released by Blood Music in 2014.
Oracle is an EP by Sunn O))).
Possessed is the fourth album by English heavy metal band Venom. It is the band's last studio album to feature guitarist Jeffrey Dunn before his first departure from the band in 1986. At the time of its release, it received mixed reviews, even from critics who had liked Venom's earlier albums; Possessed was thought to be in another league as compared to the band's earlier works, even though much of the material on Possessed was written before the release of its predecessor, At War with Satan. It was the first Venom album recorded outside of Impulse Studios. The song ""Possessed"" is ranked No. 14 on the Parents Music Resource Center's ""Filthy Fifteen"", a list of the 15 songs the group found to be most objectionable. The boy on the cover is the son of the band's drummer, Abaddon. The girl is the niece of producer Keith Nichol.
Praetorians is the fifth full length studio album, and eighth album overall, released by the black metal band Naer Mataron. It was released on the Season of Mist label in 2008, the first album by Naer Mataron on this label.
Shelter is the fourth studio album by French shoegaze band Alcest. It was released on January 17, 2014 via Prophecy Productions. The album's name is related to the album's overall concept of shelter, ""a safe place to escape, this secret thing we all have when life is going too fast and you are full of anxiety."" The album marks a significant stylistic shift for the band, fully embracing the band's shoegaze and dream-pop influences while eliminating the previous metal influences, with Rolling Stone writing that the album has ""more in common genetically with Sigur Rós than Satyricon.""
Sin/Pecado is the third studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band, Moonspell, released in 1998.
Sodom is the eleventh album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on April 21, 2006. The first pressing was in a slipcase and includes a full-colour poster of the artwork. ""The album is self-titled,"" Tom Angelripper explains, ""because every band needs a self-titled album.""
Wars of the Roses is the eighth studio album by the Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. The album was produced by Ulver, with John Fryer and Jaime Gomez Arellano, and issued in April 2011 via Jester Records and Kscope, preceded by a single, ""February MMX,” in February. Wars of the Roses is the first album to feature new member, British composer and multi-instrumentalist Daniel O'Sullivan (Æthenor, Guapo, Mothlite). Wars of the Roses amalgamates ”musical traits from its predecessors while re-shaping them with a more direct approach."" SputnikMusic noted, ""Wars of the Roses’ thoughtful conception and execution serves only for a thoughtful listen. After all this time, it still remains a privilege to bear witness to these wolves evolve once again."" Wars Of The Roses was mixed by producer John Fryer (Depeche Mode, Cocteau Twins, Swans etc.), following a chance meeting outside Crystal Canyon studios, Norway, during the latter stages of recording. The album entered the Norwegian national album charts at Number 17, based on sales from one day alone, holding up for two subsequent weeks. It also entered the Finnish national album charts at Number 30 where it held up for one week.
Black Metal Warfare is the fifth full length and at the same time the first live album by the black metal band Horna. It was released in 2004 on Deviant Records and was limited to 150 copies. This album was released on tape format.
Demon Entrails is a compilation album that comprises three demos by the Swiss extreme metal band Hellhammer. The demos – Death Fiend, Triumph of Death and Satanic Rites – were all recorded during 1983 and were properly remastered for this compilation.
The discography of Dimmu Borgir, a Norwegian symphonic black metal band, consists of nine studio albums, four extended plays, two split albums, one compilation album, five singles and three videos. Dimmu Borgir was formed in 1993 by Shagrath, Silenoz, and Tjodalv in Oslo, Norway and released their first extended play, Inn i evighetens mørke (English: Into the Darkness of Eternity), in 1994 shortly followed by their début studio album, For All Tid (English: For all time), in the same year. Two years later, in 1996, they released their second studio album Stormblåst (English: Stormblown) under Cacophonous Records and was their final album sung entirely in Norwegian until its rerecording in 2005 under Nuclear Blast. The band's first release under Nuclear Blast was their third studio album Enthrone Darkness Triumphant and was also their first album to make it into the charts; peaking in its seventh week in the Finnish charts at number 26 and debuting in the German charts at number 75. Before the release of their fourth studio album, Spiritual Black Dimensions; in 1999, Dimmu Borgir released the compilation album Godless Savage Garden to, according to the band, ""hold fans over while waiting for the next full-length, Spiritual Black Dimensions."" Two years later, in 2001, they released their fifth studio album, Puritanical Euphoric Misanthropia, and a further two years later their sixth and first album to chart in the United States; Death Cult Armageddon. In 2005 the band released the rerecording of their second studio album under the title Stormblåst MMV followed by their first concept album In Sorte Diaboli, in 2007, which debuted in at number one in the Norwegian album charts and at number 43 in the Billboard 200, making them the first Norwegian band since a-ha to crack the United States Top 50.
Envaatnags Eflos Solf Esgantaavne is the fourth full-length studio album released by the black metal band Horna. It was released in 2005 on Woodcut records.
Frostland Tapes is a compilation album by the Norwegian black metal band, Darkthrone. It was released through Peaceville Records on June 23, 2008. The compilation contains Darkthrone's first four demos (Land of Frost, A New Dimension, Thulcandra, Cromlech), the original instrumental version of the Goatlord demo, and a recording of a concert in Denmark.
Goatfucking Gent/Vivicomburium is a split EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Obscure Abhorrene Productions in 2005. It was limited to 738 copies.
Haudankylmyyden Mailla is the second full-length studio album by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Solistitium Records in 1999 and was limited to 1,500 copies. It was then re-released by Omvina Records in 2005, and again on Blut & Eisen Productions in 2007. Both re-released versions have some type of alteration from the original version.
Hiidentorni / Perimä Vihassa Ja Verikostossa is a compilation by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Woodcut Records in 2000.
Horna/Tenebrae In Perpetuum is a split EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released in 2005 on Debemur Morti Productions.
Horna/Behexen is a split EP by the black metal bands Horna and Behexen. It was first released in 2004 on vinyl by Grievantee Productions and was limited to 500 copies. The CD version was released by Autistiartili Records and was limited to 1000 copies on. It was later re-released on February 5, 2007 through Debemur Morti Productions with different artwork.
Horna / Desolation Triumphalis is the eighth EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on D.U.K.E. Records in 2003 and was limited to 500 copies. It is a split album with the black metal band Desolation Triumphalis.
Horna / Musta Surma is an EP released by the black metal band Horna. It is a split album between Horna and Musta Surma. It was released in 2000 on End All Life Productions. It was limited to 500 copies as a 7"" LP.
Horna/Ouroboros is the tenth EP from the black metal band Horna. It was released on Lookinglassblack Records, a new label for the band, in 2003. The album is a split with the, now split-up, Canadian black metal band Ouroboros.
Horna/Peste Noire is a split EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Debemur Morti Productions in 2007 on a 7"" LP format.
Horna/Sacrificia Mortuorum is a split EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Debemur Morti Productions and Grievantee Records in 2006. It was limited to 1000 copies.
Horna and Woods of Infinity released an unnamed split 7 inch EP in 2004. It was released on Klaxon Productions and was limited to 666 copies.
Ilman Arvoa ja Arkkua/Kinaiδoς is a split EP by the black metal band Horna and Legion of Doom. It was released on Zyklon-B Records in 2006 as a black 7"" vinyl and a 7"" picture disc, both limited to 300 copies. The label also released a red 7"" version and a box set limited to 50 copies (25 Horna and 25 Legion of Doom), thease are considered as bootlegs as they were approved by neither of the bands.
Impaler's Wolves is the second Mini-Album by the black metal band Graveland. It was released on Eastclan records in 1999. The cover pictures an image of Vlad the Impaler.
Korpin Hetki is the fifth EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Apocalyptic Empire Records in 2002, and was limited to 500 copies.
Musta Surma / Horna is the seventh EP by the black metal band Horna. It is a split album with the Finnish black metal band Musta Surma. It was released on Blut & Eisen Productions in 2002 and was limited to 350 copies. Unlike the first split between these two bands, this split contains more tracks and was not re-released.
Ordo Regnum Sathanas is the second compilation by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Adversary Productions in 2004 and was limited to 300 copies.
Perimä Vihassa Ja Verikostossa is the second EP by the Finnish black metal band Horna. It was released as a 10"" picture disc EP and was limited to 500 copies, including a poster.
Pimeyden Hehku is an EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Debemur Morti Productions in 2007 as an MCD containing the first four tracks. It was also released by Deviant Records as a 12"" MLP limited to 500 copies.
Raiders of Revenge is a split album by the black metal band Graveland and RAC band Honor. It was released in 2000 on Resistance Records.
Risti ja Ruoska is the sixth EP from the black metal band Horna. It was released on Ledo Takas Records in 2002 and was limited to 666 copies.
Shadowheart is the debut album by Finnish symphonic/folk metal band Kivimetsän Druidi. It was released through Century Media on October 20, 2008.
Sudentaival is the third full-length studio album by the black metal band Horna. Roughly translated, Sudentaival means ""The Wolf's Path."" It was released in 2001 on Woodcut Records. An LP version was later released by Sombre Records and was limited to 350 copies. The South American version includes two bonus tracks, ""Koston Talvi"" and ""Voitonmalja"".These were the very first tracks done with Corvus.
Talismaani is the twelfth EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Static Supernova Records in 2004 and was limited to 666 copies on picture 7"" vinyl.
Viha ja Viikate is the ninth EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Woodcut Records in 2003. It was then re-released by Obscure Abhorrence Productions on LP format and was limited to 400 copies.
Tracks 1-2 and 7-8 are from the Horna / Musta Surma split, originally released in 2000. Tracks 3-6 and 9-12 are from the second Musta Surma / Horna split release from 2002.Horna tracks 3-6 are a re-recording of the first demo Varjoissa. Musta Surma tracks 9-12 are from their 1997 demo release.
Vuohipaimen is an EP by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Obscure Abhorrence Productions in 2004 and was limited to 1000 copies, first 100 copies came with a shirt.
Whispered Myths is a split EP released by the black metal band Horna. It is a split with Horna, and Fog(A U.S. black metal band). It was released on Dark Horizon Records in 1999 and contained only two tracks. Only 500 copies were released.
Ääniä Yössä is the fifth full-length studio album by the black metal band Horna. It was released on Debemur Morti Productions in 2006.
Against is the seventh studio album by the Brazilian metal band Sepultura, released in 1998 through Roadrunner Records. It is the band's first release with new frontman Derrick Green, who replaced group founder Max Cavalera in 1997.
Morbid Visions is the debut studio album by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura, released on November 10, 1986 by Cogumelo Records. While later albums have a more political edge, Morbid Visions (along with the Bestial Devastation EP) is notable for ""Satanic"" themes. The band said many lyrics were fashioned after those of Venom and Celtic Frost (note the similarity of the album title to Morbid Tales). The production of the album is rather poor. In the liner notes of Roadrunner's reissue of the album (which includes the tracks from the EP Bestial Devastation), Cavalera admits that the band neglected to tune their guitars during the sessions. They were only starting to learn English at this point, so they had to translate the lyrics word-for-word using a dictionary. The original vinyl pressings; and CD (with the exception of the earliest Roadrunner -then RoadRacer- pressings) and Tapes releases until 1992 of Morbid Visions featured the first movement of Carl Orff's Carmina Burana (""O Fortuna"") as an unnamed introduction. This composition was left off the CD re-release, probably because of copyright issues. This would mark the last appearance of the group's original lead guitarist Jairo T.
Dawning of a New Age is the second demo by the Northern Irish Celtic metal band Waylander, released on cassette in 1996.
Once Upon an Era is the first demo album by the Northern Irish Celtic metal band Waylander. It was recorded at Hillcrest Studios Lurgan, County Armagh and released in 1994. It is notable for being the only Waylander recording to feature original bassist Jason Barriskill.
Reawakening Pride Once Lost is the debut studio album by the Northern Irish Celtic metal band Waylander, released in 1998 by Century Media. The album was re-released in 2006 by the Irish label, Midhir Records. This pressing came with two bonus tracks - A Hero's Lament and Sunrise - both taken from the Dawning of a New Age demo.
The Light, the Dark and the Endless Knot is the second studio album by the Northern Irish Celtic metal band Waylander. It was released in 2001.
...En their medh ríki fara... (Old Norse, ""...And in Glory Will They Go..."") is the debut studio album by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach. The album was recorded and mixed between 18-21 December 1995 and 07-09 March 1996 at Blue House Studio. There are two CD versions of this album. The first came with a picture of Vratyas Vakyas in the booklet. Due to the album booklet's poor quality, the booklet was changed for the second version. A microcassette version was limited to 250 copies.
...Magni blandinn ok megintiri... (Old Norse, ""...Mixed with Strength and Pride Glory..."") is the second studio album by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach. It was recorded at Blue House Studios in Germany. The album was re-released as a limited vinyl LP (1,000 copies) on Skaldic Art Productions in 2002.
And the Forests Dream Eternally is the debut EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released in August 1994, through Italian label Enthopy Records. The EP was recorded in July 1994 in Warrior Studio. ""Pure Evil and Hate"" is a tribute to Bathory. It is one of the band's most popular songs and is often a closer for live performances. The EP was re-released in 1997 by Last Episode Records in a split with Forbidden Spaces by Polish black metal band Damnation. It was re-issued again in 2005, with the tracks from another Behemoth EP, Bewitching the Pomerania, as bonus tracks.
Antichristian Phenomenon is the third EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The first five tracks were recorded in July and August 2000 at the Hendrix Studios in Poland during the Thelema.6 studio session. ""Day of Suffering"" was recorded in November 2000, also in the Hendrix Studios. ""Carnage"" was recorded in April 1999 at the Starcraft Stimulation Studios. A limited tour edition, which was packed in a black jewel case, was released during the European ""Act of Rebellion"" tour; 1000 copies exist of this edition. There was also a 7-inch picture disc released, which was limited to 500 copies, containing only three songs. The EP also contains a multimedia track: a live video of the song ""Christians To The Lions"", featured on Thelema.6. It was filmed at Proxima Club in Warsaw, Poland, on June 15, 2001.
As the Shadows Rise is an EP by the Norwegian black metal band Emperor. It was recorded in December 1992, during the same session as the Emperor EP, but not released until 1994. The three songs on the EP are re-recordings from the Wrath of the Tyrant demo. It was later re-released on the split album True Kings of Norway with Immortal, Dimmu Borgir, Ancient and Arcturus. The cover art is a woodcut by Gustave Doré (1832–1883).
Bewitching the Pomerania is the second EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released in 1997 by Solistitium Records. It was recorded at P.J. Studios, February 1997 and mastered at Vox Mortiis Studio. The EP was the first release of the band, on which Zbigniew Robert ""Inferno"" Promiński, who has been a member of the band until today, played the drums. Bewitching the Pomerania also marks the band's passage from black metal music to a style more similar to death metal. Bewitching the Pomerania is also the first release to showcase Behemoth's new logo from the Old English text to its present form. On Behemoth's official webpage Nergal stated that the artwork for Bewitching the Pomerania is ""by far the worst Behemoth artwork of all time"".
Demonica is compilation box set released by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The boxset includes demo's plus previously unreleased and re-recorded songs from Behemoth's ""old school"" days when they still played traditional black metal. The boxset is limited to 10,000 copies and comes packed as an exclusive A5 digibook/slipcase with a 44-page book including rare photos and lyrics. It is also known that a limited edition gatefold double vinyl pressing was released, which is limited to 525 copies. It was re-released as a digipack containing all the original liner notes and lyrics from the box set through the band's current Metal Blade label in 2011.
Endorama is the ninth studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator released in 1999 by Drakkar Records. The gothic metal influences were the most prominent on this release, and Lacrimosa frontman Tilo Wolff provided guest vocals on the title song.
Grymyrk is a demo and the debut release by Norwegian black metal band Thorns. It was recorded in June 1991 and released in the same month. The songs comprise parts played by electric guitar and bass guitar only.
Heralding – The Fireblade is the fourth studio album by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach. This record is made up of songs originally intended to be the band's debut album Fireblade, which was shelved in 1995. For the 15-year anniversary of the band, the tracks were finally re-recorded (using the same session musicians as on Ok nefna tysvar Ty) and released. The LP version limited to 1000 copies was released in 2006 by No Colours Records with the first 300 in transparent clear vinyl.
Inventor of Evil is the ninth, full-length album by German thrash metal band Destruction, released in 2005.
Laeknishendr or Læknishendr is a 1995 demo by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach. It contains some rerecorded tracks from older Falkenbach demos. According to Aðalbjörn Tryggvason of Sólstafir, this demo was recorded in one of Iceland's national parks, Þingvellir.The original version was limitid to 33 units, but it was bootlegged by several labels. The musical style is different from later Falkenbach albums. Vratyas Vakyas plays a more black/doom metal oriented sound, which is more harsh and aggressive than later works. Some of the tracks were rerecorded for later albums. Vratyas was using a Roland TR-909 drum machine. All lyrics are in Latin and Old Norse. Laeknishendr was an important release for the development of the German Viking/pagan metal scene.
Live Kreation is a two-disc live album by German thrash metal band Kreator. Released in 2003 by Steamhammer Records it contains 24 tracks recorded at various points during the band's extensive 2001-2002 tour. A limited edition digibook was also released featuring exclusive 36 pages deluxe color booklet. It was also released as limited boxset containing this 2CD, a poster and the DVD Live Kreation: Revisioned Glory.
Ok nefna tysvar Ty (Old Norse, ""And Call Týr Twice"", from Sigrdrífumál 6) is the third studio album by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach. The digipak version comes in a cover embossed in black and gold, and contains an Internet link to the Edda lines sung in ""Donar's Oak"". The album was re-released by Hammerheart Records in 2011 on 12"" vinyl. Limited to 100 copies on clear vinyl and 400 copies on gold vinyl.
Ravendusk in My Heart is the debut studio album by Swedish black metal band Diabolical Masquerade. It was released in 1996.
Refuse/Resist is Sepultura's third EP, released in 1994. The title song, also included as a single off the album Chaos A.D., is one of the band's best-known songs and remains a concert staple to this day. A music video was filmed for the single which features the band playing live at a festival intercut with footage of rioting and general unrest. This video can be found on the VHS Third World Chaos, which was later released on DVD as part of the Chaos DVD. The intro to the song is the heartbeat of Max Cavalera's then-unborn first son Zyon. This song is also notable for having a 20-second growl at the end. ""Refuse/Resist"" also appears in live form on the band's live releases Under a Pale Grey Sky and Live in São Paulo.
Slaves Shall Serve is the fifth EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The first 4 tracks were recorded during the Demigod studio sessions at Hendrix Studios during July and August in 2004. The last 2 tracks were recorded live at the Sweden Rock Festival in 2005. The EP was released as an enhanced audio disc with 2 videos of Slaves Shall Serve. Both the censored and uncensored versions are included. In 2011, the EP (along with several previously unreleased live tracks) was bundled with Conjuration and released as part of the compilation album Abyssus Abyssum Invocat.
The Fire And The Wind is the final album of the New Zealand Heavy metal band Demoniac, the only one to be recorded following their relocation to London. The black metal sound of the previous two albums was almost completely eschewed on this recording, with only vocalist Behemoth's shrieking vocals alluding to the genre. The music is otherwise very similar to Dragonforce, the band Heimdall and Shred would go on to form after Demoniac's split. The note progression in the DragonForce song Soldiers of the Wasteland's first sung portion is very similar to the note progression from 2:26 to 2:45 in the song The Eagle Spreads Its Wings.(1)
Third World Posse is a limited edition EP by the Brazilian thrash metal band Sepultura, released exclusively in Australia in 1992. It contains the studio version of ""Dead Embryonic Cells"", a cover of the Dead Kennedys' song ""Drug Me"", and three live tracks taken from the Under Siege (Live in Barcelona) video in Spain on May 31, 1991. By the end of the year Sepultura returned to Brazil, so they could take a few weeks off before doing a short German tour with the band Motörhead and the Florida death metal group Morbid Angel in December. During their break they went to record a cover version of ""Drug Me"" for the Virus 100 compilation. Virus 100 was designed to celebrate the 100th album by the independent record label, Alternative Tentacles, run by the ex-Dead Kennedys frontman Jello Biafra. Napalm Death, Faith No More, Neurosis and L7 also recorded tracks for the album. ""Drug Me"" and live tracks taken from the Under Siege video were later collected on the Australian-only EP Third World Posse (1992). In July 1992 Sepultura toured Australia, they were supported by local heavy metal group, Taramis.
Violent Revolution is the tenth studio album by the German thrash metal band Kreator. It was released on September 25, 2001. After almost a decade of musical experimentation with their metal sound (starting with Renewal), with this album the band returned to their 1980s thrash metal style, although it does make use of Gothenburg metal elements.
Visions from the Spiral Generator is the fourth full-length album by Swedish progressive/folk metal band Vintersorg. It was released on 24 June 2002. This album saw a drastic shift in style in the band that was foreshadowed on the band's prior album, Cosmic Genesis. The lyrics continued to be mixed between English and Swedish, and the music continued to be even more progressive and technical, moving farther away from the band's original folk influences.
Wrath of the Tyrant is the first demo album by the Norwegian black metal band Emperor. It was recorded in May 1992 and self-released by the band shortly after. Compared to Emperor's later work, the style of the album is much closer to death metal.
Don't Fear the Reaper is an album by Swedish thrash metal band Witchery, released on February 27, 2006. This album is their debut on Century Media Records. Don't Fear The Reaper was recorded at Berno Studios in Malmö, Sweden (as was their previous album ""Symphony for the Devil""), but mixed by Tue Madsen at his Antfarm Studios. It showcases not only a cover-version of the Satanic Slaughter classic ""Immortal Death"", but also Witchery's feel for catchy and precise metal tunes.
In the Eyes of Ioldánach is the third EP by black metal band Absu. It was released in 1998 by Osmose Productions. In March 2009, the EP was re-released with the 2001 album Tara in a digipak.
Malevolent Grain is an EP by Wolves in the Throne Room that is the warmup to their third album Black Cascade This is the first album to feature guitar by Will Lindsay from the now defunct Middian. Jamie Myers from the band Hammers of Misfortune also supplies guest vocals for the song ""A Looming Resonance"".
Milorg is the fourth album by the Norwegian black metal band Vreid. The name leads from the Norwegian resistance group Milorg in World War II. The songs are all about the German invasion of Norway during the ""Weserübung"" and their fight against them.
Plurima Mortis Imago is the debut album by the Polish avant-garde black metal band Devilish Impressions. The band was able to recruit Dragor to do the drums and Adrian Nefarious to play the bass guitar, both members of Luna Ad Noctum. The musical arrangements were far better than their demo and they decided to record the instruments at different studios. The drums and guitars were recorded at Mamut Studio by Maciek Mularczyk and Wojtek Nowak. And all the synths and vocals at Hendrix Studios, Lublin by Arek ""Malta"" Malczewski. A man well known for his long-time relationship with Behemoth. Al the material was mixed at the home studio of Wojtek ""Flumen"" Kostrzewa and mastered by the Wiesławscy brothers of Studio Hertz, Białystok, all in September, 2005.
Revelations of the Black Flame is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal band 1349. The studio sessions took place during December 2008 in a woodland studio in Bøverbru (a village in the Toten region of Norway). 1349 mixed the album in January 2009. The album was co-mixed by Tom Gabriel Fischer. This marked the first and as yet, only experimental album by the band, as they almost completely abandoned their earlier old school black metal style, instead making use of irregular song structures and more progressive ideas. The album also contains a variety of dark ambient compositions spread throughout. After this release, the band would return to their previous, more straight-forward style.
The Morrigan's Call is the fifth studio album by the Irish Celtic metal band Cruachan released in 2006.
Urfe is the third studio album by British industrial black metal band The Axis of Perdition. It was released on January 16, 2009 on Code666 Records. It is a concept album about a man named Urfe who travels through the ruins of a desolate city all the while being led by a mysterious figure who goes by the name of ""Pylon"". The album, especially the first disc, is mostly a work of atmospheric spoken word being narrated by Leslie Simpson, who is also an actor who starred in several horror movies such as The Descent, Doomsday, and Dog Soldiers. The first disc 'Grief of the Unclean' is an ambient piece made up of atmospheric effects and spoken word. The second disc 'The Great Unwashed' is where the black metal and industrial metal comes into play, while still having some spoken word parts left, though more broken up in between the traditional black metal vocals of Brooke Johnson.
Veritas Diaboli Manet in Aeternum: Chaining the Katechon is a 22-minute EP containing a single song, recorded by the French black metal band Deathspell Omega. Chaining the Katechon was released through Norma Evangelium Diaboli on 8 December 2008. The title Veritas Diaboli Manet in Aeternum is a work of two French black metal bands—Deathspell Omega (Chaining the Katechon) and S.V.E.S.T. (Le Diable est ma Raison)—and can be understood as a variation on a same theme, independent yet complementary.
The Wanderer and His Shadow is the second full-length album from Norwegian extreme metal band, Pantheon I and was released in May 2007. The name of the album comes from one of Friedrich Nietzsche's earlier works of the same name.
Dark Space I is the first full-length album by the Swiss black metal band Darkspace. It was first released by Haunter of the Dark in 2003 in a limited edition of 500 Digipak CDs. In 2006, it was remastered and re-released by Avantgarde Music in unlimited quantity. In 2014, Avantgarde also released a vinyl version. ""Dark 1.1"" contains a sample of HAL 9000 from the film 2010.
Dark Space II is the second album by the Swiss black metal band Darkspace. It was first released by Haunter of the Dark in 2005 in a limited edition of 500 Digipak CDs. In 2006, it was re-released by Avantgarde Music in unlimited quantity. The album contains ambience sampled from the film Alien.
Dark Space III is the third album by the Swiss black metal band Darkspace. It was released by Avantgarde Music in 2008, in both a limited edition of 500 hand-numbered Digipak copies and an unlimited jewel case version. The album contains a number of samples relating to the overall themes of space and darkness. ""Dark 3.11"" contains a dialogue sample from the film Event Horizon, ""Dark 3.16"" samples Victor Wong as Howard Birack from the film Prince of Darkness, and ""Dark 3.17"" samples Al Strobel as MIKE from the television series Twin Peaks.
Född förlorare (Born Loser) is the seventh album by Shining, released by Spinefarm Records on May 25, 2011. ""Tillsammans är vi allt"" includes Håkan Hemlin of Nordman on clean vocals, while Erik Danielsson of Watain appears on ""Tiden läker inga sår"". ""I nattens timma"" is a cover version of a song written by the Swedish progressive rock group Landberk, released on their 1992 album Riktigt äkta. The track ""FFF"" is dedicated to Kvarforth's mother, Susanne, who died from a heart attack at the beginning of 2010.
Honour Amongst Chaos is the third studio album by the Northern Irish Celtic metal band Waylander. It was released in 2008 through Listenable Records, and was the band's first album for seven years. Some versions of the album feature a re-recording of the song Born to the Fight with new lyrics as a bonus track.
Japanese Assault is an EP by British thrash metal band Venom.
The Pulse Of Decay is Hades Almighty's last studio album.
Worlds I Create is the third full-length album from Norwegian black metal band, Pantheon I and was released in Europe on 29 July 2009 and in North America on 11 August of the same year. As with the band's two previous albums the cover is a painting by Kjell Åge Meland.
ATGCLVLSSCAP is the twelfth studio album by the Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Written, performed and produced by Ulver, the album was released on January 22, 2016, via newly formed, London-based label House of Mythology. The music was culled from multitrack recordings made at twelve different improvisatory ""free rock"" live shows the band performed in February 2014, and later edited and enhanced in the studio by Daniel O'Sullivan. The album has been described as ""Ultimately a piece of work that exists above and beyond any conventional live recording, rather a hallucinatory travelogue as potent an experience to bear witness to as it was to construct."" On October 30, 2015, the song ""Cromagnosis"" was broadcast on Baba Yaga’s Hut via online radio station Resonance FM, and later uploaded to Mixcloud. The song ""Moody Stix"" features samples from the song ""Doom Sticks"" from A Quick Fix of Melancholy. ""Glammer Hammer"" reinterprets ""Glamour Box (Ostinati)"" from Messe I.X-VI.X. ""Nowhere (Sweet Sixteen)"" is a new arrangement of ""Nowhere/Catastrophe"", and ""Ecclesiastes (A Vernal Catnap)"" reinterprets the ending of ""Tomorrow Never Knows""; both original songs are from Perdition City. ""England's Hidden"" contains vocal samples of ""England"" from Wars of the Roses. The album's title, ATGCLVLSSCAP, is an initialism referring to the first letter of each twelve signs of the zodiac, from Aries to Pisces.
Trolsk Sortmetall 1993-1997 is a retrospective box set of albums by Norwegian black metal band Ulver, issued in 2014 via Century Media. Limited to 5000 copies, the set collects Ulver's first demo Vargnatt, together with their first three full-length albums, Bergtatt, Kveldssanger and Nattens madrigal with a bonus 4-track rehearsal of songs from Nattens madrigal, recorded in the summer of 1995. Released in a in 5xCD and 4xLP + Cassette format, housed in a cardboard box, with a 104-page booklet consisting of unpublished photos and paraphernalia, original Norwegian lyrics, presentations and their English translations, comments by the band as well as liner notes by Jon 'Metalion' Kristiansen (founder of Head Not Found Records and the man behind Slayer Mag), Chris Bruni (Profound Lore Records), Michael Jenkins Moynihan (author of Lords of Chaos) and Mark Pilkington (Strange Attractor Press). The set commemorates Ulver's black metal phase, before shifting styles dramatically into more ambient, electronic, and experimental music. Ulver’s formative years, collectively known as The Trilogie – Three Journeyes Through the Norwegian Netherworlde, was released under this title as a 1000 limited edition triple picture vinyl box set in 1997.
Le Secret (Reissue) is an EP by the French band Alcest. It was released in May 2011 through Prophecy Productions.
Forever Abomination is the fourth album by American extreme metal band Skeletonwitch. It is also the first album to feature drummer Dustin Boltjes. The album was released on October 7, 2011.
Tetragrammatical Astygmata is the third (fifth, counting live records) full-length studio release from the Austin-based black metal band Averse Sefira. It was the last of their albums to be released on an independent metal label; in 2006, the band would jump to Candlelight and release their label debut in 2008. Much like that disc, this is split into categories; tracks 1-3 are ""Blood"", tracks 4 & 5 are ""Flesh"", tracks 6 & 7 are ""Death"", and tracks 8-10 are ""Earth"".
De Principii Evangelikum is the second full-length studio recording released by French black metal band Antaeus. Counting splits and EPs, it is their ninth recording overall.
Lots of Girls Gonna Get Hurt is an EP by the Swedish black metal band Shining. It was released through Spinefarm Records on May 30, 2012.
Orkan  (""Hurricane"") is the eighth full-length album by Swedish folk metal band Vintersorg. As with the previous two albums, the lyrics are all in Swedish. This is the second of a planned four-album concept series based on the elements, the first being Jordpuls.
Redefining Darkness is the eighth studio album by the Swedish black metal band Shining. It was released through Spinefarm Records on 29 October 2012.The album is dedicated to the memory of Trond Bråthen (a.k.a. ""Trondr Nefas"").
The Curse of the Antichrist: Live in Agony is the third live album released by German thrash metal band Destruction. The album was released on September 25, 2009, by AFM Records.
Asa is the sixth studio album by the German Viking metal band Falkenbach. It was released in 2013 on Prophecy Productions.
Aske (Norwegian for ""ashes"") is an EP by Norwegian black metal solo project Burzum. Though recorded in April and August 1992, after Det som engang var, it was released before that album in March 1993, through Deathlike Silence Productions.
Belus is the seventh full-length album by the Norwegian one-man band Burzum. The first studio album to be recorded after a near 11-year hiatus, it was released on 8 March 2010 through Byelobog Productions.
Chimera is the third full length album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. It is the fourth and last main Mayhem release with the vocalist Sven Erik Kristiansen (Maniac). TurboNatas of the Norwegian band Red Harvest provided the album artwork. The album art is a screenshot from the 1922 silent film Häxan. At the time of the album's release in 2004, Mayhem was still being sharply and routinely criticized in the metal underground for straying from the black metal style on its previous album, Grand Declaration of War.
Epic is Borknagar's sixth studio album. It was released in 2004 on Century Media Records, as were all of their recordings until  Universal, which came out through Indie. Drummer Asgeir Mickelson plays all bass on this record because Tyr, their previous bassist, left the band halfway through the recording sessions. This album also marks the departure of guitarist Jens F. Ryland.
Generator is the fourth studio album by the Italian/Norwegian industrial black metal band Aborym. Former vocalist Attila Csihar makes a guest appearance on this album, performing vocals on ""Man Bites God"". Vocals on the rest of the album are performed by Prime Evil. This is Aborym's first album to feature a human drummer as opposed to a drum machine. It is also the last to feature longtime guitarist Nysrok Infernalien.
IX is the third album by an Italian extreme metal band, Bulldozer which was released in 1987. The album was re-released on May 9, 2014 by F.O.A.D. Records with extra slimcase CD included in the gatefold, this is a sort of “director’s cut” proposed by the band and totally unreleased until now.
IX Equilibrium is the third studio album by the black metal band Emperor.
Megiddo is the first EP by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon, and the first release following their 1996 studio album Nemesis Divina.
Origin is Borknagar's seventh studio album, and is primarily an acoustic effort. Origin explores the band's more progressive and traditional elements. Following his brief departure from the band during the recording sessions of Epic, this album would mark bassist Tyr's rejoining of the band. ""Oceans Rise"" is an acoustic remake of the original which appeared on their 1998 release The Archaic Course.
Pagan is the fourth studio album by the Irish Celtic metal band Cruachan released in 2004.
Passage is the fourth album by Swiss industrial metal band Samael, released on 19 August 1996 through Century Media. On this album, the band opted for more intensive use of keyboards and industrial sounds, drifting from their black metal roots and progressing in a different direction. Lyrically the band abandoned satanic themes and veered more towards the occult and the cosmic. While it differs from its predecessors, Passage can be credited for thrusting Samael from the underground scene and giving the band a much larger international audience. The album was originally recorded with a 17 song track list but was later cut down to 11. The remaining songs can be found on the album Exodus. A second edition was later offered containing 10 classical piano compositions from the album on a second disk. In 2007, a remastered, re-packaged, special edition was released containing the album's original 17 song track list. Over a decade after its original release, Passage is still considered by many to be a pillar in the black/industrial metal genre. A video for ""Jupiterian Vibe"" received regular airplay on MTV's Headbangers Ball.
SETI is the fourth studio album by the Norwegian industrial metal band, The Kovenant, and was released in 2003 through Nuclear Blast.
Tara is the fourth album by black metal band Absu. It was released on May 23, 2001, by Osmose Productions. A remastered edition was supposed to come out in September 2007, but was delayed until March 2009. It contains the In the Eyes of Ioldánach EP as bonus tracks. Early promotional material for the album stated that Mike Scaccia of Rigor Mortis/Ministry fame would contribute to the album but that did not occur. In addition, King Diamond did contribute vocals to the album but could not be credited due to contractual restrictions. He is credited as Masthema Mazziqim, a pseudonym used by the singer of Dolmen, a band that eventually became Absu.
Wormwood is the eleventh studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded at Endarker Studio by Magnus Devo Andersson and released on September 21 in Europe and October 13 in U.S. by Regain Records. It is the first Marduk album to feature drummer Lars Broddesson. ""Phosphorous Redeemer"" was made available on the band's official MySpace page in the run-up to the album's release.
In the Absence of Light is the second album by black metal band Abigail Williams. The album was released in North America on September 28, 2010. The album moves away from the symphonic black metal sound and keyboard usage featured on In the Shadow of a Thousand Suns to a more standard black metal sound.
Lux Mundi is the ninth studio album from the heavy metal band Samael, released on 29 April 2011 through Nuclear Blast. The latin words Lux Mundi translate as ""Light of the World"".
Near Death Experience is the second album by the experimental black metal band Spektr.
Proxima Centauri is the fifth album by Norwegian black metal band Ancient.
Vanitas is the seventh full-length studio album by British extreme metal band Anaal Nathrakh. It was released on October 23, 2012, on Candlelight Records. The album was released in North America on November 6, 2012.
Vermin is the sixth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Old Man's Child, released on 14 October 2005.
A-Lex is the eleventh studio album by the Brazilian metal band Sepultura. It was released on 23 January 2009 by independent German record label SPV Records. This is the first album featuring drummer Jean Dolabella, since the departure of Igor Cavalera in 2006. This is the second concept album released by Sepultura, following 2006's Dante XXI which was based on Dante Alighieri's The Divine Comedy. A-Lex is based on the 1962 book A Clockwork Orange by Anthony Burgess, which in 1971 was adapted into a film version by Stanley Kubrick.
Blood of Heroes is the fifth EP by Polish black metal band Graveland. It was originally released in 2002 on Vinland Winds Records, but was re-released in 2004 on No Colours Records. An LP version was also released and was limited to 1488 copies.
Blutbahnen is the sixth studio album by the German dark metal band Eisregen, released through Massacre Records in 2007.
Creed of Iron is the fifth full length studio album by Polish black metal band Graveland. It was also released under the Polish title Prawo Stali, with lyrics sung in Polish. The album was released in 2000 on No Colours Records (English edition) & in 2001 by Nawia Productions (Polish edition). Both versions was remixed in summer 2009 in Darken Home Forge and released in November 2 on 2 CD with bonus tracks from Raise Your Sword! EP, limited to 500 hand-numbered copies and digipack A5 (Creed of Iron only), 200 hand-numbered copies.
Demo 2002 was the first release by the Norwegian black metal band Orcustus, founded by Taipan and featuring Infernus and Tormentor of Gorgoroth and Dirge Rep of Enslaved and Gehenna It was limited to 1000 copies on CD. This demo was deemed a significant and important release by several well-known musicians from the Norwegian black metal scene, such as Fenriz of Darkthrone and Frost of Satyricon, and led to the band getting signed on US record label Southern Lord Records. It was re-released exclusively by Misantrof ANTIrecords in 2007, as downloadable mp3s.
Dømkirke is a live album by Sunn O))) that was recorded at Bergen Cathedral in Bergen, Norway, during the Borealis Festival. The album was pressed only on vinyl, never to be released on other formats, although it has now been made available for digital download directly from Southern Lord's Web store. It is a double album that features one track on each side of the records. The packaging of Dømkirke features artwork by the Norwegian visual artist Tania Stene.
This is a comprehensive discography of Emperor, a Notodden, Norway-based black metal band. Emperor has released four studio albums, two live albums, six EPs, two DVDs and three compilation albums.
Farbenfinsternis is the fourth studio album by the German dark metal band Eisregen, released through Last Episode in 2001.
'Fire Chariot of Destruction is the ninth full length studio album by the Polish black metal band Graveland. It was released on No Colours Records in 2005. An LP version was also released and was limited to 1000 copies.
Immortal Pride is the fourth full length studio album by Polish black metal band Graveland. Initially it was released as a tape by Rob Darken's own label Eastclan. CD & vinyl versions were released by No Colours Records, with the vinyl edition limited to 500 copies.The album is unique among Graveland releases in its extensive use of melodic vocals, performed in a chanting style, alongside Darken's typical growls.
Klagopsalmer (roughly, Hymns of Lament) is the sixth album by Shining. It was released on June 30, 2009, by Osmose Productions. Track 4 is a cover version of Seigmen's ""Ohm"" (from the Total album). ""Ohm"" is sung in Norwegian, making it the only song on the album not sung in Swedish. Samplings on the album are from the 1979 documentary, Ett anständigt liv, by Stefan Jarl. Erik Danielsson from Swedish black metal band Watain is responsible for the album cover art.
Leichenlager is the third studio album by the German dark metal band Eisregen, released through Last Episode in 2000.
Live at the Caledonien Hall is a live album by Norwegian avant-garde metal band In the Woods..., released in 2003.
Memory and Destiny is the sixth full-length studio album by Polish black metal band Graveland. It was released in 2002 on No Colours Records and was limited to 2000 copies. The LP version was limited to 888 copies.
Sworn Enemy: Heaven is the fourth studio album by the Austrian death metal band Thirdmoon, released through FM Records in 2004.
Tear Your Soul Apart is an EP by Venom. ""'The Ark"" and ""Civilised"" are studio outtakes that didn't appear on the Prime Evil album. The track ""Hellbent"" is a live cover of the Judas Priest song ""Hell Bent for Leather"" with the lyrics in the chorus changed to ""Hell bent for metal"".
The Demonstration Archive 1996 - 1998 is a compilation album by Agalloch featuring music from the band's unsigned years from 1996 to 1998. Tracks 1 through 3 were taken from Agalloch's first demo from 1997, From Which of This Oak; tracks 4 through 6 were from an unreleased 7"" vinyl EP recorded in autumn 1998 called Of Stone, Wind and Pillor (later released as a limited-edition CD with bonus tracks by The End Records); and tracks 7 and 8 came from Agalloch's second demo Promo 1998. All of the material was taken from the original DAT tapes and analog reels. Aside from some slight mastering to keep the songs at an even volume, nothing was edited or polished. The collection included a 12-page booklet with notes, contemporary artwork, and 1998 photos. The recordings of ""Hallways of Enchanted Ebony"" and ""The Melancholy Spirit"" are not the same versions that appeared on the studio album Pale Folklore. The Demonstration Archive 1996 - 1998 was released by Licht von Dämmerung Arthouse in 2008, and reissued as a box set in 2012 by Eisenwald Tonschmiede.
The Fire of Awakening is the seventh full-length studio album by Polish black metal band Graveland. It was released in 2003 on No Colours Records and was limited to 1000 copies.
Will Stronger Than Death is the tenth full length studio album by the Polish Pagan metal band Graveland. It was released in 2007 on No Colours Records.
World Dirtnap is an EP by the Norwegian black metal band Orcustus. It was released the same year as their debut, the self-released Demo 2002, and contains the first two tracks of that demo. The EP was released on 7"" vinyl only in late 2003, limited to 1100 copies - 800 copies on black vinyl and 300 copies on red vinyl. It was released by the US record label Southern Lord, and marked the band's first release on this label.
Wrathrash is the second EP released by the Norwegian black metal band Orcustus. It was released in 2005 on 7"" vinyl only, by the US record label Southern Lord. Limited pressing of 1500 copies on red and black vinyl.
Wundwasser is the fifth studio album by the German dark metal band Eisregen, released through Massacre Records in 2004.
Carving out the Eyes of God is the fourth studio album by American Blackened death metal band Goatwhore.
Gathered Around the Oaken Table is the third and final studio album by the Swedish Viking metal band Mithotyn. First issued in 1999 on Invasion Records and Soundholic in Japan, this featured a cover image of a group sitting around an oaken table. The Japanese version contains one bonus track (""Bland vargars yl"" - a re-recorded version from the band's 1996 promo demo). The re-releases through Karmageddon Media (Europe) and Hammerheart America featured different artwork. This would be the band's last release before members Stefan Weinerhall and Karsten Larsson dissolved the band and formed Falconer'.
King of the Distant Forest is the second studio album by the Swedish Viking metal band Mithotyn. Initially released on Invasion Records in 1997 and in the United States through Death Records (part of Metal Blade) featuring 11 songs and a purple cover. The album was re-issued a year later on the same label with different artwork in a digipak. The cover was based on the original purple cover, only with more details and in color. This also included five bonus tracks. Four of these were featured on the band's earlier demo, Meadow in Silence. A Japanese release through Soundholic featured three of those bonus tracks (the remaining two were issued on their release of In the Sign of the Ravens. In 2002, Karmageddon Records released the album again featuring different cover artwork entirely but did not have the bonus tracks.
Mass Grave Aesthetics is a 19-minute EP containing a single song, recorded by the French black metal band Deathspell Omega. Mass Grave Aesthetics was released through Norma Evangelium Diaboli on 8 December 2008. It was also reissued with Diabolus Absconditus on a vinyl LP in 2011. The song ""Mass Grave Aesthetics"" was originally released as the final track of the four-way split album From the Entrails to the Dirt, which was released in 2005. The song's epigram is taken from the writings of the French poet and polemicist Laurent Tailhade.
Skeletons in the Closet is the first compilation cover album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom, released on September 22, 2009 through Spinefarm Records. The album only contains four unreleased covers for the songs ""Hell Is for Children"", ""Antisocial"", ""War Inside My Head"", and ""Waiting"", but the previously released songs are remixed and new details can be heard.The Japanese edition is pressed in SHM-CD format.
White Tomb is the debut album by Irish ambient black metal band Altar of Plagues. It was recorded at Data Studios, Kerry.
Rostrot is a 2011 album from the German death metal / black metal band Eisregen.
Burzum is the first studio album by Norwegian black metal solo project Burzum. It was released in March 1992, through Deathlike Silence Productions.
Empiricism is the fifth studio album by Borknagar, and their first studio album to feature Vintersorg (known as the frontman of the band of the same name) on vocals, along with the addition of Tyr on bass. This would mark the last album appearance of Jens F. Ryland on guitar until 2010. The album was recorded at Fagerborg Studio and Toproom Studio during June and July 2001, and was mixed and produced by the band and Børge Finstad.
Under a Pale Grey Sky is a live album by Sepultura, released September 24, 2002 through Roadrunner Records. The album was recorded in the Brixton Academy, London on December 16, 1996, the night that Max Cavalera left the band.
Under Attack is the fourteenth studio album by the German thrash metal band Destruction, released on May 13, 2016
Live at Roadburn 2008 is the first live album by American black metal band Wolves in the Throne Room. It was released in January 2009 on LP/DVD and later in November 2009 on CD/DVD.
Arcane Rain Fell is the second full-length album released by the band Draconian through Napalm Records on 24 January 2005. It was recorded and produced at Studio Underground. The album is a concept album that details the fall of Lucifer from Heaven and the creation of Hell. The album is often cited as a classic of the doom/death genre and features haunting slow guitar riffs, beautiful soprano vocals, meandering keyboards/piano, violins, cellos and clear yet aggressive male growling vocals. All guitars on the album were performed by Johan Ericson. ""Death, Come Near Me"" is a remake of a song off of the 2002 ""Dark Oceans We Cry"" demo. ""The Apostasy Canticle"" was originally titled ""The Wings of God"".
Candlewolf of Golden Chalice is an EP by Sunn O))). It was the band’s first and only Peel session, although it was recorded and released after the death of John Peel. It aired on December 21, 2004, on BBC1 and was released on vinyl exclusively on tour in 2005.
Cro-Monolithic Remixes for an Iron Age was a vinyl EP released by Sunn O))). The first side is a remix of a song by Earth and the second side is a remix of a track from the album Frog+ by Merzbow. This was a limited release—only 300 red vinyl and 200 black vinyl copies were issued.
Deleted Scenes from the Transition Hospital is an album by British cinematic industrial black metal band The Axis of Perdition. It was released on 28 March 2005 on Code666 Records, catalogue number CODE027. Its name is a reference to an earlier song from the band, ""Reopening Wounds of the Transition Hospital"".
Endless Pain is the debut studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator, released in October 1985 by Noise Records. On this album both Petrozza and Reil share vocal duties. This album has been known to be viewed as a pivotal album to black metal bands that enjoy dabbling in thrash metal elements, ultimately creating a thrash-influenced black metal sound.
Enthrone Darkness Triumphant is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir, released on 30 May 1997 through Nuclear Blast Records. It was the band's first release through Nuclear Blast, as well as their first full-length release to contain lyrics in English. It is also the first Dimmu Borgir album to feature bass guitarist Nagash and the last to feature keyboardist Stian Aarstad.
Flight of the Behemoth is the second album by Sunn O))). The band collaborated with Japanese noise artist Merzbow, who mixed tracks 3 and 4, and used drum machine and vocals on the track ""F.W.T.B.T.,"" an interpretation of Metallica's ""For Whom the Bell Tolls"". While the band did try to follow the original structure and riffing of the song, the intent was not to copy the original, but to rewrite the song for themselves.
For all tid (""For all time"" in English) is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was remastered and re-released in 1997 with their new label Nuclear Blast with the front cover art in full color and the entire Inn i evighetens mørke EP added. It is the band's only studio album on which Shagrath is on drums and Tjodalv on guitar. The artwork displayed on the front cover of the album is inspired by Gustave Doré's illustration of Camelot from Idylls of the King.
In Times Before the Light is the debut studio album by the Norwegian black metal band The Kovenant, and was released in 1997 through Mordgrimm.
In the Sign of Evil is the first EP and the debut release by German thrash metal band Sodom, released in 1984 by Devil's Game independent record label. The record is considered part of the first wave of black metal. Despite the melodic rawness, the over-the-top lyrics (""My life begins at midnight twelve, masturbate to kill myself"") and the elementary structure of the songs, two of them (""Outbreak of Evil"" and ""Blasphemer"") were regularly played by the band twenty-five years into its career, and are considered crowd favorites. The tracks from In the Sign of Evil were re-recorded in 2007 and released as The Final Sign of Evil.
Inn i evighetens mørke (translated as ‘Into the Darkness of Eternity’) is the first EP by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was first released as a demo in August 1994, and later as an EP on 17 December the same month and year as the release of the debut album For all tid. The EP was released by Necromantic Gallery Productions on 7"" vinyl limited to 1000 copies. The EP is included in the True Kings of Norway split CD by Spinefarm Records, released in 2000. In 2003, a bootleg version on Hat Records was released, that only contained the two-part track Inn i evighetens mørke and Raabjørn speiler draugheimens skodde was not included in this release. The track Raabjørn speiler draugheimens skodde would later be included on the band's debut album For all tid, and would also be re-recorded for Enthrone Darkness Triumphant and the Godless Savage Garden EP. As well, both parts of Inn i evighetens mørke were remastered for the re-release of For all tid in 1997.
Live White is a live album by Sunn O))), recorded at the Northsix in Brooklyn, New York. The first five tracks are from White1 and White2. ""NN O)))"" is from ØØ Void, and ""Death Becomes You"" is from Flight of the Behemoth. ""Caveman Salad"" would later become ""Orthodox Caveman"" on Black One.
M-16 is the tenth studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 22 October 2001 by Steamhammer Records. The album is a concept album about the Vietnam War and is named after the rifle used by many U.S. soldiers during the war.
Nexus Polaris is the second studio album by the Norwegian black metal band, The Kovenant, and was released in 1998 through Nuclear Blast.
Physical Illucinations in the Sewer of Xuchilbara (The Red God) is an EP by British cinematic industrial black metal band The Axis of Perdition. It was released on 15 November 2004 (see 2004 in music) on Code666 Records, catalogue number CODE026. Originally intended to be half of a split CD with Blut Aus Nord, the plan was prevented by financial difficulties. It was eventually released by Code666 as a limited edition EP limited to 666 copies. A reworked version of ""Chained in the Damnation Asylum"" was removed from the original track listing due to time constraints but was not reinstated on the EP. Several songs on the album contain voice samples from Claudia Wolf, the primary antagonist from the video game Silent Hill 3. The title of the EP is also a reference to the Silent Hill series of video games. Xuchilbara is an important god in the game's cult mythology and it is believed that Pyramid Head is a representation of Xuchilbara. Valtiel is also the presence of Xuchilbara and is featured heavily in the third game. In the fourth Silent Hill game, a serial killer named Walter Sullivan finds his soul split due to conflict of guilt and ambition, which leads one half to be empowered by Valtiel, making him ""The Red Devil"", a misnomer of the red god.
Pleasure to Kill is the second studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator, released in April 1986 by Noise Records. The lyrical themes follow those found on their first album Endless Pain. Many death metal bands cite this album as an influence. Pleasure to Kill is widely considered a thrash classic. It is also considered a landmark album in the history of thrash metal along with Master of Puppets by Metallica, Peace Sells... but Who's Buying? by Megadeth, Reign in Blood by Slayer, Eternal Devastation by Destruction and Darkness Descends by Dark Angel, all released in 1986.
Spiritual Black Dimensions is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was released in 1999 by Nuclear Blast Records. A deluxe edition was released in 2004 with bonus material. There is also a digipak edition of this album which contains no bonus tracks. The digipak has reflective/holographic cover art. This release featured keyboardist Mustis and the clean vocals of ICS Vortex, as well as the departure of long-time drummer Tjodalv, guitarist Astennu, and bassist Nagash. Musically this was a departure for the group. The music's overall feel is faster and darker with more emphasis on the keyboard lines versus the slower, more riff-heavy approach of previous albums. The band attributes this to Astennu's due influence, as his Carpe Tenebrum project at the time had a very similar musical direction. This album also marked a first in Dimmu's run to feature the clean vocals of ICS Vortex, adding a new dimension to the ""Dimmu sound"". The band continued to use the contrasting vocals in future albums. The album cover was part of the top 10 of Greatest Heavy Metal Album Covers by Blender magazine. The song Grotesquery Conceiled was played live when Dimmu Borgir won the Norwegian Grammy Award called Spellemannprisen in category metal in 1999. The band was supposed to play the song The Insight and the Catharsis with the symphony orchestra Kringkastingsorkestret, but they backed before show because they refused to perform with Dimmu Borgir due to their satanic message. Later that night at the after party a Dimmu Borgir band member got in a fight with a member from the same orchestra. Dimmu Borgir has since been on good terms with the orchestra, having collaborated with them for the band's ninth studio album Abrahadabra and the yet-to-be-released live album Forces of the Northern Night.
Stormblåst (""Stormblown"" in English) is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was released on 25 January 1996 through Cacophonous Records, and re-released in 2001 by Century Media. The album is entirely in the band's native language of Norwegian, and was their last album to be completely in Norwegian instead of English. This is also the first album where Tjodalv switched to drums as opposed to guitar and the last where lyrics would be written by Aldrahn (of Dødheimsgard and Ved Buens Ende) until 2003's Death Cult Armageddon, and the last album to feature Brynjard Tristan on bass guitar. More keyboards were employed for this album than previously by the band, and the guitars and bass became more musically textured. In 2005, a completely re-recorded version of this album was released as Stormblåst MMV.
The Grimmrobe Demos is Sunn O)))'s first recorded album, and is the most direct representation of its self-proclaimed Earth-worship. It was originally limited to 500 copies by Hydra Head Records, but in 2005, Southern Lord Records reissued it on CD and vinyl with a bonus live track. An early rehearsal track titled ""Bremerton"" was included on the vinyl release. The album's third track was named after frontman Dylan Carlson of Earth, and is also a loose interpretation of the track ""Ouroborous is Broken"" from Earth's first release, entitled Extra-Capsular Extraction. The booklet of the second version of the album contains a long passage of apocalyptic writing by Seldon Hunt, written in Melbourne, Australia, during October 2004. On August 8, 2008, Sunn O))) announced that it would do a mini-tour consisting of four concerts to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the album's release.
The Ichneumon Method (And Less Welcome Techniques) is the debut album by British cinematic industrial black metal band The Axis of Perdition. It was released in 2003 on Rage of Achilles, catalogue number ILIAD035. The name of the title is a reference to the ichneumon wasp, which lays the eggs of its young in other insects. When the eggs hatch, the baby wasps eat their way through the body of their host.
The Libations of Samhain is a live album released by Sunn O))). The first track is a live performance in London, on Halloween 2003 and the second is an interview by Savage Pencil and Sharon Gal, originally broadcast on London's Resonance FM 104. 500 copies with ""raw"" covers and 100 with orange covers were produced.
Under the Moonspell is an EP by Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell, released in 1994.
Welcome to Hell is the debut studio album by English heavy metal band Venom. It was released in December 1981, through Neat Records, at the culmination of the new wave of British heavy metal movement. The music of Welcome to Hell is often described as speed metal, but it had a great influence on the then-emerging thrash metal style, and crystallised the elements of what later became known as death metal and black metal. The sound of the album is very noisy and rough, perhaps in part because the band thought they were recording a demo when they recorded the album over a period of only three days.According to author Dayal Patterson, Welcome to Hell might be the first black metal album.
White1 is the third album by Sunn O))). It was the most significant departure from their original style to date. Each track was experimental in its own way, with Julian Cope reciting occultic druidist poetry for half of ""My Wall"", Norwegian lyrics sung by Runhild Gammelsæter of Thorr's Hammer as an intro to a drum machine and stoner metal bass riff in ""The Gates of Ballard,"" and the drone track ""A Shaving of the Horn that Speared You."" The lyrics to ""The Gates of Ballard"" come from ""Håvard Hedde"", a Norwegian folk song. Another metal version of ""Håvard Hedde"" had been recorded in 1995 by Storm. In Q magazine's August issue (named the loud issue), they named White1 as the 18th loudest album of all time, just above AC/DC's Back in Black and below Jimi Hendrix's album Are You Experienced?
White2 is the fourth album by Sunn O))). It was recorded during the same sessions as White1, but it was not released until a year later. This album features Attila Csihar of Mayhem fame quoting the Srimad Bhagavatam on ""Decay2 [Nihils' Maw]"". The vinyl also features him on ""Decay [The Symptoms of Kali Yuga]"". ""HELL-O)))-WEEN"" is a more traditional Sunn O))) track, harkening back to The Grimmrobe Demos in its all-guitar-and-bass approach. A DOD Buzz Box effects pedal designed to imitate the sound of Buzz Osborne of The Melvins was used for the bass effects on ""bassAliens"". The cover art is a drawing by Pieter Bruegel the Elder called The Bee-Keepers.
'N Crugu Bradului is a concept album by Negură Bunget, released by the Code666 label in 2002 in a digibook format, constructed manually by the members themselves and limited to 3,000 copies worldwide (the second pressing was in a regular jewel case CD). Each song represents a season. The album title translates to ""Through the Depths of the Fir Tree Heights"".
'Til Death Do Us Unite is the eighth studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 24 February 1997 by Steamhammer/SPV. It had a controversial album cover, showing the bellies of a naked pregnant woman and an obese man pressing a human skull together. It is the first Sodom album with guitarist Bernermann (who is currently with the band since 1996) and drummer Bobby Schottkowski. A video was made for the song ""Fuck the Police"".
A Dangerous Meeting is a compilation album of King Diamond and Mercyful Fate songs. The vinyl version included ""Satan's Fall"", which was omitted from the CD version due to time constrictions.
At War with Satan is the third album by extreme metal band Venom, released in April 1984. A semi-concept album that tells the story of a war between Heaven and Hell where the latter side wins, it was touted as Venom's crossover into rock mainstream, but failed to do so. Shortly after it reached the stores the HMV record chain withdrew the album from their shelves due to its anti-Christian content.
Black One is the fifth album by Sunn O))). It is a combination of both experimental and traditional Sunn O))), utilizing many guest musicians, including black metal musicians Malefic and Wrest from Xasthur and Leviathan, respectively. The band supposedly also went so far as to lock the claustrophobic Malefic in a casket to record the vocals on ""Báthory Erzsébet"". 2,000 copies included a bonus disc titled Solstitium Fulminate, containing a mix of live performances recorded at Roskilde Festival in 2005 and the immediately preceding European tour. ""Orthodox Caveman"", previously known as ""Caveman Salad"", is based on live material from the White (see Live White) tour. ""Báthory Erzsébet"" was recorded as a tribute to Quorthon (as well as the countess who inspired Bathory's name) and, according to an interview with Terrorizer magazine, is loosely built ""around a really slowed down riff from 'A Fine Day to Die'"". The album is not a continuation of the White1 and White2 style. As the band has repeatedly stated, the title is written as the word ""one"", not the digit.
Ceremony of Opposites is the third album by Swiss extreme metal band Samael. This is their second release with Century Media Records after leaving French label Osmose Productions. Although the band's subject matter was similar to previous releases (references to Aleister Crowley, Satanism and blasphemy), it also showed their first signs of interest in industrial music, a direction that they would take on future albums. It was produced by Waldemar Sorychta, who also worked on recordings by Lacuna Coil, Tiamat, Moonspell and others. In 2005, the album was re-issued with their 1995 Rebellion EP.
Get What You Deserve is the sixth studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 1 January 1994 by Steamhammer/SPV.
Gospels for the Sick is the first album by Scum. It was recorded at Crystal Canyon Studios in Oslo in one session in 2004 and released in Norway in fall 2005, in August in Europe and October in North America. The album was nominated for the Alarm Awards (Norwegian music awards) in the metal category, but lost to Stonegard. The artwork on the CD was done by Stephen O'Malley and the band photos by Sebastian Ludvigsen. The music was created by Samoth, Cosmocrator and Casey Chaos, while the lyrics were all written by Casey Chaos.
Inarborat Kosmos is an EP released by Negură Bunget in May 2005 in a strictly limited edition of 734 copies on the Code666 label. It was recorded at the band's own studio. For the first time, the production and mixing were fully done by themselves.
Mad Butcher is the second EP by German thrash metal band Destruction, released in 1987. Tommy had left the band and two new members had entered the group: a new drummer, Olli, and a new guitarist, Harry. ""Mad Butcher,"" the first song of the album, is a Destruction classic, but this revision is faster, with double solos from Harry and Mike. The second song ""The Damned"" is a cover song from The Plasmatics. The third song ""Reject Emotions"" is a thrash ballad. Finally, ""The Last Judgement"" is an instrumental song played by Harry.
Marooned - Live is a live album by Sodom released in 1994. It was recorded in Zeche Carl.
Masquerade in Blood is the seventh studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 1 June 1995 by Steamhammer/SPV. The album includes a cover of Anti-Nowhere League song ""Let's Break the Law"", as well as a cover of Saxon song ""20,000 Feet"". The latter is only found on the Japanese releases of the album. This is also the only release to feature guitarist Strahli, and the second and last for drummer Atomic Steif, since Strahli was arrested in 1996 for possession of drugs, and Steif also left the band for personal reasons. Musically, Masquerade is often seen as the band's rawest and heaviest record, and continues in the same vein of their previous album, but also obtains a modernized groove metal approach.
Mortal Way of Live is a live album by Sodom released in 1988.
Măiastru Sfetnic is a concept album released by Negură Bunget in October 2000 on Bestial Records.
Negură Bunget Box is a limited edition (of 500 copies) slipcase box set released in March 2004 by Negură Bunget, containing remixed versions of their first four releases, From Transilvanian Forest (a 1995 EP originally issued under the name Wiccan Rede) and the albums Zîrnindu-să (1997) Sala Molksa (1998) and Măiastru Sfetnic (2000). The box set's graphic concept unites the three albums, with a front cover image generated by the union of the three individual album covers. Zîrnindu-să and Sala Molksa were included in both original and remixed versions. From Transilvanian Forest was remastered. Due to high resale prices on eBay, the band reissued the box set in October 2005.
Obsessed by Cruelty is the debut studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released in 1986. Two different versions of this album exist, the European and the American, which were released by Steamhammer and Metal Blade Records, respectively.
One Night in Bangkok is a live album by the German thrash metal band Sodom, recorded in Bangkok, Thailand.
Persecution Mania is the second studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 1 December 1987 by Steamhammer/SPV. The album marked a drastic change of sound from black metal to thrash metal. As well as defining Sodom's sound, it exemplified the thrash metal genre at a time when it arguably peaked in popularity. The album also bore similarity to the music of other German bands such as Destruction and Kreator, and the term ""Teutonic"" thrash was coined from this. Despite what the cover may imply, the lyrical themes of the album are centred more around politics and war than religion. This is largely due to guitarist Frank ""Blackfire"" Godznik joining the band. He brought new songwriting aspects to the band that gave it a much more organized and clearer sound, as well as helping Sodom to carve a lyrical niche that it still practices to this day. The outro guitar lead in track 9, ""Bombenhagel"", is the German national anthem, ""Das Lied der Deutschen"". Persecution Mania was re-released in 2000 as part of a double pack with the Obsessed by Cruelty/In the Sign of Evil split. Both CD releases include the Expurse of Sodomy EP.
The Gathering Wilderness is the fifth studio album by Primordial, released in 2005. It was their debut for the Metal Blade label. The digipak comes with a bonus DVD featuring a documentary detailing the making of the album. The album is in part dedicated to the memory of Quorthon.
Wolfheart is the debut studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band, Moonspell. All of the tracks are in English except for ""Trebaruna"" and ""Ataegina"", which are in Portuguese, as well as the chorus of ""Alma Mater"". The song ""An Erotic Alchemy"" is a duet, inspired by and quoting Marquis de Sade. In July 2010 it was reported that Wolfheart will be represented in the form of an official stamp to be issued by the Portuguese Postal Service (CTT, Correios de Portugal) as part of a collection of stamps that represent the most significant rock moments and records from Portugal.
Battles in the North is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Immortal. It was released on 15 May 1995 through Osmose Productions. It picks up where its predecessor, Pure Holocaust, left off, featuring extreme tempos, lo-fi production and lyrics about coldness and wintery landscapes. This is the first album where the concept of Blashyrkh becomes a central focus; this would continue throughout all of Immortal's subsequent albums. The last album to feature Abbath on drums.
Diabolical Fullmoon Mysticism is the first album by Norwegian black metal band Immortal. It was released on 1 July 1992 through Osmose Productions. The only album to feature Armagedda on drums.
Aber Bitte mit Sahne is an EP by Sodom. The title track is a cover of the 1975 song of the same name by the Austrian chansonier Udo Jürgens. Its title translates into English as ""But Please With Cream"" (word by word). According to the context, this phrase should be translated to ""But with whipped cream, please.""
At the Heart of Winter is the fifth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Immortal. It was released on 28 February 1999 through Osmose Productions. It is the first Immortal album not to feature Demonaz on guitar, as he suffered from acute tendinitis in his hands. The album marks a shift in Immortal's musical sound, towards a black metal and thrash metal fusion.
Blackcrowned is the first compilation album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It is composed of previously unreleased material recorded and mixed at Bloodspawn Studios and The Abyss between September 1992 and September 2001, and was released on February 19, 2002 by Regain Records.
Blizzard Beasts is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Immortal. It was released on 20 March 1997 through Osmose Productions. It is the last Immortal album to feature founding member Demonaz Doom Occulta on guitar, and the first to feature Horgh on drums. Demonaz was later diagnosed with acute tendinitis which prevented him from playing guitar at the required speed for Immortal's music. Stylistically, Blizzard Beasts has primarily songs that are less than three minutes long, contrasting with Immortal's usual longer song lengths.
Born of the Flickering is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band Old Man's Child. It was released in 1996, through Hot Records. In 1996, it was re-released through Century Media with different artwork.
Cause for Conflict is the seventh studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator released in 1995. The record continued the experimentation with industrial music that they started on previous album, Renewal, but brought back more of their thrashy sound.
Coma of Souls is the fifth studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator, released in 1990. It was reissued in 2002, with the lyrics for the last four songs missing from the booklet. It would be the last album before the band began experimenting with influences from other musical genres. It also would be the last record issued in the U.S. by Epic Records. Coma of Souls was also released in the U.S. as a limited edition in purple vinyl. Although the album's lyrics contain no profanity, original copies of Coma of Souls had a Parental Advisory label on the cover. Subsequent pressings of the album do not carry the Parental Advisory label.
Damned in Black is the sixth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Immortal. It was released on 27 April 2000 through Osmose Productions. It is the first album where bass guitar is played by Iscariah, the bassist and vocalist of the band Dead to This World. The musical style started to embrace a more blackened thrash metal sound, a style that would be as prevalent on their next album, Sons of Northern Darkness.
Dark Endless is the debut studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at Hellspawn Studios during four days in June 1992 and released that December by No Fashion Records. Like many early black metal albums, it mixes black metal vocals with predominantly death metal stylings. Dark Endless is the only Marduk studio album to feature Andreas Axelsson on vocals and Rikard Kalm on bass, as by Marduk's second album Those of the Unlight, they had been replaced by Joakim Göthberg (who previously had already been contributing vocals) and B. War respectively. There also exists a Christian unblack metal band named ""Dark Endless"" who are named after this particular album.
Darkness and Hope is the fifth studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band, Moonspell, released in 2001. Several different versions were released, with different bonus tracks. One version contained ""Os Senhores da Guerra"", originally by Madredeus, the second featured ""Mr. Crowley"", originally by Ozzy Osbourne. Another version had a cover of Joy Division's ""Love Will Tear Us Apart"" as the bonus track.
Dauði Baldrs (English: ""Baldr's Death"" or ""The Death of Baldr"") is the fifth album by the Norwegian band Burzum. Unlike Burzum's previous work, which was mostly black metal, this is a dark ambient album. It was recorded using a synthesizer and a normal tape recorder by Varg Vikernes while he was in prison, as he was not allowed to have any other instruments or recording equipment. It was completed in a few months due to his limited access to synthesizers, which was also the case with the following album, Hliðskjálf.
Death Fiend is an unreleased demo tape by the Swiss extreme metal band Hellhammer. It was recorded in June 1983, along with the Triumph of Death demo, and later appeared on the compilation album Demon Entrails.
Extreme Aggression is the fourth studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator released in 1989. While the band had already gained a sizeable following in the US due to their 1987 tour with the crossover thrash band D.R.I., this album introduced many American fans to Kreator, primarily through heavy rotation of the ""Betrayer"" music video on MTV's Headbangers Ball, which was partly shot at the Acropolis in Athens, Greece. This album was their first issued in the US by Epic Records. The album was also available on picture disc vinyl. The album's original artwork was a monster-like creature painting a picture of a cannibal eating a person's head. However, it was quickly replaced with a new artwork, depicting an image of the band in front of an orange background.
Fuck Me Jesus is the first demo by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at Gorysound Studios, and released in June 1991. It was re-released by Osmose Productions on April 21, 1995 on CD and 7"" vinyl limited to 700 hand numbered copies, again on CD in 1999 with three bonus tracks, and again in 2006 on a 10"" mLP limited to 500 copies. Fuck Me Jesus was banned in several countries following its CD release, due to its explicit cover art. ""Departure from the Mortals"", ""The Black..."" and ""Within the Abyss"" were re-recorded for the band's 1992 debut, Dark Endless.
Godless Savage Garden is a compilation album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was released in 1998 by Nuclear Blast and re-released on 3 October 2006 with 2 bonus tracks. The first four tracks were recorded during the Enthrone Darkness Triumphant sessions which ""Raabjørn speiler draugheimens skodde"" also appeared on. This is the last release to feature former keyboardist Stian Aarstad and first to include guitarist Astennu.
Grand Declaration of War is the second full-length studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem, released by Season of Mist and Necropolis Records on 6 June 2000. The album's title and some of the lyrics are taken from the writings of the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, particularly his books Twilight of the Idols and The Antichrist. Nietzsche called Twilight of the Idols ""a grand declaration of war"" („eine grosse Kriegserklärung“).
Heaven Shall Burn... When We Are Gathered is the fourth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at The Abyss in January 1996 and released on July 1 that year by Osmose Productions. It was re-released in digipak format with bonus tracks on June 27, 2006. Heaven Shall Burn... When We Are Gathered is the first Marduk album to feature Legion, formerly of Ophthalamia, on vocals and Peter Tägtgren as mixer. This album marked a shift in style for what Marduk are popularly known for; hyper-blast blast beats and furious drum work, sheer brutality over melody (compared to previous releases), and raw vocals. The music for ""Glorification of the Black God"" is an adaptation of Modest Mussorgsky's ""Night on Bald Mountain"". The First guitar riff is from a score in The Wizard of Oz (1939 film). Furthermore, the lyrics of the song are clearly inspired by ""Bald Mountain's"" basic theme (a witches' Sabbath on St. John's Night). The title of the album is a reference to the Bathory song Dies Irae.
Here's No Peace is the second EP by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at Hellspawn Studios in December 1991, but remained unreleased for almost six years until October 1997 when it was released by Shadow Records. The EP features a drastically different line-up than Marduk actually was by this time, with differences including Andreas Axelsson on vocals, Rikard Kalm on bass, and Joakim Göthberg on drums and additional vocals; Dan Swanö was also the mixer of the recording. The only member of the personnel to have remained with Marduk by the release of Here's No Peace was guitarist Morgan Steinmeyer Håkansson who remains part of the band to this day.
Ill-Natured Spiritual Invasion is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Old Man's Child. Most of the vocals were improvised by Galder while in the studio.
Imrama is the debut album of the Irish black metal band Primordial. It was originally released in 1995. In 2001, it was re-issued by Hammerheart Records with two bonus tracks. It was reissued again, this time by Metal Blade Records in 2009 as CD/DVD digipack in slipcase. It is a part of collector series of the first 4 albums reissues. Immrama, meaning 'voyages' or literally 'rowings about' refers to a category of medieval Irish Christian literature in which a protagonist sets about voyaging in penance for sins committed. Medieval catelogues of literature see this genre as contrasting with Eachtra, 'expeditions' or 'adventures' in which the protagonist visits the Otherworld of Irish traditional lore. In Ireland, an overwhelmingly English speaking country, usage of the Irish language is an outward expression of Irish identity, which is a central theme of Primordial's aesthetic and appeal. Imrama, correctly pronounced with a stressed first syllable and voiced labiodental fricative second 'm', is pronounced by the band themselves (as native speakers of English, ignorant of the Irish language and its orthography reading the word would) with a stressed second syllable and bilabial nasal second 'm'.
In Defiance of Existence is the fifth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Old Man's Child, released on 20 January 2003.
In the Embrace of Evil is a compilation album by Swedish death metal band Grotesque. The album was re-released as a split CD with At the Gates' Gardens of Grief EP by Century Media in 2001. Tracks 2, 3, 7, 8 and 9 are remixed songs taken from the Incantation EP. Tracks 1, 4, 5, and 6 are remastered songs from the never released In the Embrace of Evil demo. Tracks 10 and 11 were recorded by Tomas Lindberg, Alf Svensson and Kristian Wåhlin in 1996 specially for this release.
Infernal Eternal is the second live album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded in France during the World Panzer Battle tour and released on November 14, 2000 by Regain Records.
Live in Germania is the first live album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded at four venues in Germany during the Heaven Shall Burn 1996 tour, engineered and edited at The Abyss, and released on July 7, 1997 by Osmose Productions. The album was originally announced by the band as titled The Black Years, but this was later opted out. Live in Germania is the only Marduk album to feature Peter Tägtgren of Hypocrisy, and also the band's mixer, on guitar.
(For the 1991 arcade game, see Metal Black (video game).) Metal Black is the eleventh studio album by heavy metal band Venom. It was released in 2006 through Castle/Sanctuary. It is the last to feature Mykvs on guitar. The name of the album is a play on their 1982 album Black Metal, one of the band's best known LPs.
Of Stone, Wind and Pillor is an EP by American metal band Agalloch. It was originally meant to be released on 7"" vinyl in December 1998 by Iron First Productions (with only the first three songs), but that did not occur. It was later released in 2001 via The End Records with two additional tracks: ""Kneel to the Cross"", recorded in 2001, and ""A Poem by Yeats"", recorded in 2000. This release was limited to 2,500 copies. The cover artwork, Le Cerf Se Voyant Dans L'Eau, was by Gustave Doré.
Opus Nocturne is the third studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at Hellspawn Studios in September 1994 and released that December by Osmose Productions. It was re-released in digipak format that included bonus rehearsal tracks on June 27, 2006. Opus Nocturne is the last Marduk album to feature Joakim Göthberg on vocals and Dan Swanö as mixer. Opus Nocturne was the first album to showcase Marduk's signature hyper-speed blast beat tempo, however it still contained much of the melody from Those of the Unlight while retaining this break-neck speed, instead of sheer brutality on albums like Heaven Shall Burn... When We Are Gathered and Nightwing. ""Materialized in Stone"" was originally the title for the track ""From the Dark Past"" that appears on Mayhem's De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas, the title was changed by Per Yngve Ohlin before his death. Marduk later adopted the title for the song on this album. They had previously also used a song title by Ohlin on their album Those of the Unlight. This is considered a vague tribute to Per and his works.
Pale Folklore is the debut album by American metal band Agalloch. It featured an eclectic mix of acoustic folk reminiscent of Scandinavian bands such as Ulver; doom and black metal-esque riffs; growled, clean, whispered, and shrieked vocals; and a production style and atmosphere that borrowed heavily from black metal. The lyrical themes focused mainly on depression, nature, folklore and the supernatural. It featured the roots of a post-rock influence which was greatly expanded on with Agalloch's second studio album, The Mantle.
Panzer Division Marduk is the sixth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at The Abyss in January 1999 and released in June 1999 by Osmose Productions. The theme of the album is war, as Nightwing was blood, and La Grande Danse Macabre (the band's next studio album) would be death, forming a trilogy of ""Blood, War and Death"", Marduk's vision of what black metal is, unending grimness. Panzer Division Marduk was the last Marduk release by Osmose Productions. The original album cover features a photo of the Swedish version (Stridsvagn 104) of the British Centurion tank.The 2008 reissue of the album featured a Panzer VI E ""Tiger"" on its cover, reinforcing the Germanic WWII theme of the album.The internal sleeve pictures a tank column triumphant across a city in ruin: this is the Red Army across a destroyed Berlin in 1945. The concept of World War II in every track initially led many proponents of National Socialist black metal to consider the band akin to them, notwithstanding the fact that vocalist Legion and guitarist/composer Morgan publicly debunked this rumor, saying that Marduk has no political point in their lyrics, and the band has nothing to do with Nazi views.
Plague Angel is the ninth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at Endarker Studio in September 2004 and released that November by Regain Records. Plague Angel is the first Marduk album to feature Mortuus on vocals and Magnus ""Devo"" Andersson, ex-guitarist for Marduk following his departure in 1994, on bass and mixing. This album marked a definitive shift in Marduk's lyrical approach. Instead of overt Satanism, much of the lyrics take a more religious-like direction. This is due to Morgan and Mortuus' fascination with the Bible, as they are both admit to being Bible experts (despite Marduk's anti-religious stance, Morgan has admitted that he uses the Bible as inspiration solely for its violent content, as he finds death and violence to be most inspirational for Marduk, and that he can ""write a complete song mentally by just looking at a violent painting or image""). ""The Hangman of Prague"" refers to Reinhard Heydrich after the invasion of Czechoslovakia.
Revelation 666: the Curse of Damnation is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Old Man's Child, released on March 13, 2000.
Satanic Rites is the third and final demo tape by Swiss extreme metal band Hellhammer. It was recorded and released during December 1983. Along with Hellhammer's other releases, it had a major influence on the emerging death metal and black metal genres. Satanic Rites later appeared on the compilation album Demon Entrails along with the two other demos, Death Fiend and Triumph of Death.
Sons of Satan Gather for Attack is a split album between Dimmu Borgir and Old Man's Child. It is actually a compilation of two EPs: Dimmu Borgir's Devil's Path, and Old Man's Child's In the Shades of Life. It was originally released in 1999 as Devil's Path/In the Shades of Life by Hammerheart Records. In 2004, it was re-released by Candlelight Records with a new name.
Spirit the Earth Aflame is the third album of the Irish black metal band Primordial. It was originally released in 2000.
Storm Before Calm is the fourth album of the Irish black metal band Primordial. It was originally released in 2002.
Ten Black Years is a best-of compilation album by the German thrash metal band Sodom.
Terrible Certainty is the third studio album by German thrash metal band Kreator released in 1987 through Noise Records. It was released on cd, cassette, black vinyl, and as a limited edition red vinyl. The remastered version of 2000 contains the tracks of the 1988 Out of the Dark ... Into the Light EP as bonus tracks.
The Codex Necro is the first full-length album by British black metal band Anaal Nathrakh, released on 27 November 2001. The album was re-released on 24 April 2006, with four additional bonus tracks taken from the John Peel BBC Radio One Session broadcast on 16 December 2003. It was again re-released in 2009, with four additional bonus tracks taken from the We Will Fucking Kill You demo.
The Cult is Alive is the 11th album by the Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. Released in 2006, this album represented a shift in the band's style, as they incorporated more punk and crust punk traits than before. While the band's black metal roots were still evident, their shift from the genre's typical sound was much more noticeable. Commenting on the style of the album, drummer Fenriz stated, ""Call it black metal or evil rock, I don't care...""
The Pagan Prosperity is the second album by black metal band Old Man's Child, released on 7 October 1997. It was recorded and mixed at Studiomega in June 1997.
The Saw Is the Law is an EP by the German thrash metal band Sodom released in 1991.
The Somberlain is the debut album by Dissection, released in 1993. It proved to be a highly influential release for both black metal and melodic death metal. The band dedicated the album to Euronymous, who had been murdered in August the same year. The album was reissued in 1997 by Nuclear Blast Records and again in 2004 by Black Lodge. Black Lodge also released a special edition set in 2005 limited to 666 copies, packaged in a wooden box along with a T-shirt and a sticker. The album was re-released most recently in 2006 by The End Records in a two-disc set, containing the original album, an unreleased live recording from 1995, the Into Infinite Obscurity EP from 1991, a demo from 1992, The Grief Prophecy demo from 1990, a rehearsal from 1990, and the Satanized rehearsal from 1990. All content is remastered, packaged in a slipcase, and is touted as the ""Ultimate Reissue"". This is the only album that features the band's original lineup. The cover art was done by Kristian Wåhlin.
The Treasures Within is the second album by Swedish death/thrash metal band Merciless. It was released in 1992 and re-released in 2003.
Those Who Caress the Pale is an EP by the Norwegian metal band Ved Buens Ende.
Those of the Unlight is the title of the third release/second studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was released in October 1993 by Osmose Productions, and reissued in digipak format on April 4, 2006 by Regain Records, with bonus videos of three songs performed live on August 12, 1993. It is the first album the band produced in a proper black metal style, as opposed to the blackened death metal approach of their 1992 debut, Dark Endless. Those of the Unlight is the last Marduk release to feature Joakim Göthberg on drums, as he would purely assume vocal duties by the next studio album, Opus Nocturne. It also the last studio release to have two guitarists, as Devo Andersson was not in Marduk after this release, although he did return to the band in 2004, but became Marduk's future bassist. ""Burn My Coffin"" was originally the title for a track that would appear on Mayhem's De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas, the title was changed by Per Yngve Ohlin before he died. Marduk later adopted the title for the song on this album.
Tomorrow Will Never Come is a 2003 EP by American metal band Agalloch. It was released by The End Records in a limited edition of 500 copies, hand-initialed by bassist Jason William Walton.
Where Lovers Mourn is the debut full-length album released by the band Draconian through Napalm Records on the 20 October 2003. It was recorded and produced at Studio Mega by Chris Silver and Draconian in June 2003. Most of the songs in this album are new and enhanced versions for songs Draconian had previously written for its demoes and EPs, mainly for ""Dark Oceans We Cry"" and ""Frozen Features"". The first song, ""The Cry of Silence"", is the longest on the album and is considered as one of Draconian's best songs. The song features a choir, along with Anders' growlings (main singing style), speech and Lisa's vocals. It describes a misanthropic man who wishes to live away from all others and ""die in silence"", a theme which is also present in ""The Solitude"".
Written in Waters is the debut album by the Norwegian avant-garde metal band Ved Buens Ende. It is also their last LP album before the band was put on hold.
Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam is the seventh studio album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. It was released on 19 June 2006 by Regain Records. This was the only Gorgoroth album on which all of the lyrics and music were written by Gaahl and King ov Hell, and was the last to feature both members It also marked the return of drummer Frost and was the last Gorgoroth album that he appeared on. It was nominated for Norway's 2006 Spellemann award in the ""Metal"" category. It is the first Gorgoroth album with no Norwegian lyrics. In November 2007, Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam was reissued with a slightly different cover and a DVD containing the ""Carving a Giant"" music video and another video documenting how the album was recorded.
Era One is the 2006 album by Samael. It saw the band return to the Century Media label. It includes a bonus disc, ""Lesson in Magic #1"", which is entirely instrumental and done solely by band member Xy. The album itself was recorded in 2002, and the bonus disc a year later. Both were rearranged and remixed in 2005.
Fallen Angel of Doom is Blasphemy's first full-length album, released in 1990. The album is considered one of the most influential records for the war metal style (also known as war black metal or bestial black metal).
Feeding on Angels is the second album by Soulburn. Soulburn is a name Asphyx temporarily used during the late 1990s, before returning to Asphyx. It was released in 1998 on Century Media Records.
Forests of Witchery is the debut album by symphonic black metal band Thy Serpent. This was the band's first collaborative work; the previously released demos were created solely by Sami Tenetz, who currently is rhythm guitarist of the band. It has a more doom/gothic feel than later albums.
Gallows Gallery is an album by the band Sigh. It was released by Candlelight Records originally in 2005.
Hail Horror Hail is an album by the band Sigh. It was released by Cacophonous Records originally in 1997. This is the first full-length album of Sigh's to explore their more well known avant-garde/experimental sound (Ghastly Funeral Theatre marking the true beginnings of their experimentation). An inside sleeve of the album dictates the following passage: ""This album is way beyond the conceived notion of how metal, or music, should be. In Essence it is a movie without pictures; a celluloid phantasmagoria. Accordingly, the film jumps, and another scene, seemingly unconnected with the previous context, is suddenly inserted in between frames. Every sound on this album is deliberate, and if you find that some parts of this album are strange, it isn't because the music is in itself strange, but because your conscious self is ill-equipped to comprehend the sounds produced on this recording."" Hail Horror Hail was listed in the British extreme music magazine Terrorizer as the ninth best release of 1997 and made it on their top 100 list of most important albums of the nineties.
Imaginary Sonicscape is the fifth studio album by Japanese black metal band Sigh, released on July 4, 2001. Produced by Sigh, it was the band's first record released on Century Media Records. The musical styles of Imaginary Sonicscape further explored the experimental tendencies of the band's previous album Scenario IV: Dread Dreams with further psychedelic elements to the band's sound.
Infernal Battles is the first album by the black metal band Deathspell Omega. It was released in 2000 by Northern Heritage Records, and then re-released in 2003 by NH on CD. Tracks 5 through 8 constitute a reissue of the demo Disciples of the Ultimate Void in its entirety.
Inquisitors of Satan is the second album by the black metal band Deathspell Omega. It was released in 2002 by Northern Heritage Records.
Jilemnický okultista (English title: The Jilemnice Occultist) is the second studio album by Czech black metal band Master's Hammer, independently-released on December 1992 and distributed elsewhere by Osmose Productions in the following year. Self-described by the band as ""the world's first black metal operetta"", it is their first of two concept albums, the second being Vagus Vetus, released in 2014. On several early Osmose pressings ""Jilemnice"" is misspelled as ""Filemnice"", what would be corrected in later pressings. Despite the track listing being in English, all the lyrics are in Czech. The original release contained the Czech titles. In this album, Vlastimil Voral joined Master's Hammer as a full-time member (he had already played on the band's previous album, Ritual., but was credited as a guest musician only).
In 1996, a split 10"" EP was released on Misanthropy Records consisting of one song each from Primordial and Katatonia. Primordial recorded a new version (often referred to as the ""MCMXCVI"" version of the song) of an old demo song, at Academy Studios in Yorkshire, exclusively for this release. Katatonia's song was recorded at Unisound Studios in Finspång, in February 1994. The EP was available only on purple vinyl format, limited to 777 copies.
Kénôse is an EP by the black metal band Deathspell Omega, released in 2005 under The Ajna Offensive. It continues the avant-garde and progressive direction they had been exploring on 2004's Si monvmentvm reqvires, circvmspice, and is considered by the band as something of an ""appendix"" to that album. The title Kénôse means Kenosis in French, a theological term. The lyrics form an argument against the concept of redemption; holding that humanity is irredeemable, and instead invoking plerosis, a blasphemous flowering of humanity's carnal condition in spite of God.
Live Ritual – Friday the 13th is Blasphemy's first live album, released in 2002.
Livets ändhållplats is the second album by Shining. It was released originally on Selbstmord Services, in 2001 on white splatter vinyl limited to 555 copies. Several re-issues exist: 
* Reissue in 2003 by Avantgarde Music 
* Reissue in 2004 by Modern Invasion (Australia), includes a bonus track ""Manipulation Mass"" 
* Reissue in 2005 by Osmose Productions, includes a bonus track ""Manipulation Mass""
Ritual. is the debut album by Czech black metal band Master's Hammer, initially released through independent label Monitor in 1991. It was later distributed elsewhere and re-released in CD format by Osmose Productions in 1994; Osmose's version contains two bonus tracks. The track ""Jáma pekel"" would eventually be re-recorded for Master's Hammer's 2009 album Mantras. Music videos were made for the tracks ""Černá svatozář"" and ""Géniové"".
Scenario IV: Dread Dreams is an album by the band Sigh. It was released by Cacophonous Records originally in 1999. This album shows the traits of Sigh continuing to explore their more well known Avantgarde/Experimental sound. An example would be on ""Black Curse"" where Sigh have a standard black metal sound that eventually part way through turns into a mild funk riff and a country guitar sound. Sigh would expand on this type of experimental sound on the album Imaginary Sonicscape. This was their last album for the Cacophonous label. Their next album appeared on Century Media.
Si monvmentvm reqvires, circvmspice is the third full-length album by avant-garde black metal band Deathspell Omega. The album title is Latin for 'If you seek his monument, look around you', from the epitaph of Christopher Wren's tomb at St Paul's Cathedral. This album is the first part in a trilogy of albums released by the band, followed by 'Fas - Ite, Maledicti, in Ignem Aeternum' in 2007 and 'Paracletus' in 2010. The trilogy examines the relationship between man, God, and Satan, particularly from the perspective of Theistic Satanism. One interpretation of the purpose of the album is to examine and proclaim that ""Satan is pervading every part of our material and metaphysical realms and how Man’s relationship with Him should be one of reverence and devotion.""
The Best of Sepultura is a compilation album from Roadrunner Records, featuring a best of collection of Sepultura's music with the label. Although the track-listing from ""Inner Self"" onwards is essentially a collection of all of the band's singles, in its representation of the album Arise the compilation substitutes the single ""Under Siege (Regnum Irae)"" for the album track ""Desperate Cry"". The record was released without Sepultura's involvement (they were signed to SPV Records at the time) and is not officially recognized by Sepultura themselves. The Roadrunner studio albums Morbid Visions, Against, Nation, the debut EP Bestial Devastation, and the rarities and live albums Blood-Rooted, The Roots of Sepultura and Under a Pale Grey Sky are not represented on the record (although a version of Troops of Doom did originally appear on Morbid Visions). The album was released on September 12, 2006, simultaneously with similarly unsanctioned best-of collections of the bands Type O Negative, Fear Factory and Ill Niño.
The Burning Halo is a compilation album released by the band Draconian through Napalm Records on the 29th of September 2006 (10 October 2006 in the United States). It consists of three original songs (tracks 1-3), three redone demos from The Closed Eyes of Paradise (tracks 4-6), and two covers of songs from the 1970s (tracks 7 & 8).
The Eerie Cold is the fourth album by Shining. It was released on Avantgarde Music in 2005. A black LP version was released, limited to 500 copies. This album was originally intended to be the band's last. The end of ""Claws of Perdition"" is a line spoken by Christian Bale, sampled from the ending of American Psycho.
The Past Is Alive (The Early Mischief) is a compilation album by Dissection. It contains tracks from early EPs and promos. It also includes two tracks by Satanized, the former band of Jon Nödtveidt. Some versions also include two tracks taken from the Where Dead Angels Lie EP. It has been released several times by different labels, including Necropolis Records who released it originally and Karmageddon Records. It also has been released with different cover artwork.
Within Deep Dark Chambers is the first album by the Swedish band Shining. It was originally released by Selbstmord Services, in 2000. At first, it was a black LP limited to 500 copies.
Worship Him is the first full LP from the Swiss heavy metal band Samael. Released in 1991, it was the first-ever release from Osmose Productions, an independent French metal label. Worship Him is considered a milestone in the development of second wave black metal.
A Sorcery Written in Blood was the first demo released by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. The title of the demo was taken from the lyrics of the song ""The Return of Darkness and Evil"" by the band Bathory. The demo was released in 1993 as a limited edition hand-numbered cassette. A 7"" vinyl bootleg also existed; however, there were no official reissues. Due to the Satanic imagery used on the demo cover, the newspaper Firda in Førde in Sogn og Fjordane, Norway, ran a front-page story on the demo and Gorgoroth on 7 January 1994. The demo led to the band landing a record deal with French record label Embassy Productions. The track ""Sexual Bloodgargling"" was an early version of the song ""Ritual"", re-recorded for Gorgoroth's first album Pentagram.
Blood Libels is the third full-length album by French black metal band Antaeus.
Chaos Ridden Years is a live album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom. The release was released on Spinefarm Records both as a live album entitled Chaos Ridden Years on October, 2006 and the DVD version entitled Stockholm Knockout Live - Chaos Ridden Years on October 11, 2006, directed by Patric Ullaeus. The album is a live show from Arenan, Stockholm, Sweden and contains: a documentary of the band, the making of the album, deleted scenes, a photo gallery, and seven promotional videos. Laiho said in an interview with the Finnish music magazine Soundi that he did not want to record the DVD in Finland, because it was going to be an international release, and it would be ridiculous making speeches between the songs in English in the band's homeland Finland.
Crush.Fukk.Create: Requiem for Generation Armageddon is the first live DVD by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth.
Flag of Hate is the first EP by German thrash metal band Kreator, released in 1986. It is included on the 2000 reissue of the Pleasure to Kill album. US version included three bonus tracks: ""Endless Pain"", ""Tormentor"" and ""Total Death""; all from Endless Pain. A less common reissue of Pleasure to Kill has all six as bonus tracks. The song ""Awakening of the Gods"" was featured in the video game Grand Theft Auto IV: The Lost and Damned.
Funeral Dirge for the Rotting Sun is Goatwhore's second full-length studio album.A music video was made for the song ""Blood Guilt Eucharist"".
Goatwhore/Epoch of Unlight is Goatwhore's split EP with Epoch of Unlight.
Live Eschaton is the first live performance recording by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. While originally released on VHS in 2000, a reissue was released on DVD as Live Eschaton: The Art of Rebellion in 2002. Metal Mind Productions (MMP) also released a limited edition box set of Live Eschaton: The Art of Rebellion in 2009 (limited to 2000 copies), which contains the concert on DVD with extras and a bonus CD containing the concert's audio.
Lords of Twilight is black metal-band Thy Serpent's MCD and it contains old demo-songs re-recorded and few new songs. It was released through Spinefarm Records in May 1997.
Metal Discharge is the eighth full-length album by German thrash metal band Destruction, released in 2003.
Mirrored Hate Painting is the second studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Carpe Tenebrum. It was recorded in spring/winter 1998 at The Abyss Studio and released in 1999 through Karmageddon Media. Stylistically the album is similar to Dimmu Borgir's Spiritual Black Dimensions (which is the only full-length Dimmu Borgir album featuring Astennu), albeit heavier and less symphonic. The album has an arguably obscure atmosphere because of the atypical cover artwork, the poetic lyrics and the bizarrely edited speech samples between some of the songs. The band again used a drum machine although Nagash is listed as the drummer.
This release was a split 10"" between Mütiilation and Deathspell Omega. It was Mütiilation's third release on End All Life Productions.
Omnio is the second full-length album by Norwegian avant-garde metal band In the Woods... It was released on October 14, 1997, through Misanthropy Records.
Onwards to the Spectral Defile is the debut album by black metal band Cirith Gorgor. It was released in 1999 by Osmose Productions.
Prosatanica Shooting Angels is the fourth studio album by the black metal band Nargaroth. It was released through No Colours Records in September 2004. René Wagner started to record the album for a proposed side project called Prosatanica and its debut album was going to be called Shooting Angels, but, after some reflection, he has decided that he did not want to have any side projects, and therefore he released it as a Nargaroth album.
Rom 5:12 (Romans 5, Verse 12) is the tenth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed between December 2006 and January 2007 and released on April 24, 2007 by Regain Records. The CD version of the album includes a 44-page booklet, and the LP and picture disc pressings were limited to 500 copies each. Rom 5:12 is the last Marduk album to feature Emil Dragutinovic. Just as the previous album Plague Angel, it features a second and final collaboration with the Martial Industrial band Arditi.
Scattered Ashes: A Decade of Emperial Wrath is a compilation album by Norwegian black metal band Emperor, released in 2003. It contains 27 songs from ten different releases with a total running time of nearly two and a half hours. Limited pressings of the album came in a purple slipcase which featured the band logo wrapped around all four sides. As with the previous album, only a few thousand of these were produced, and the limited edition is these days a much-sought-after rarity. The compilation set is split up in two discs. The first disc (on the packaging referred to as ""The Black Disc"") contains tracks from their studio releases, while the second disc (""The Silver Disc"") lists unreleased and more obscure releases from the group. The songs are in no particular order; the discs jump back and forth between albums several times.
Solar Soul is the seventh album by the Swiss heavy metal band Samael, released on 1 June 2006 through Nuclear Blast.
The Eclipse of Ages into Black is Goatwhore's first full-length studio album.
The Least Successful Human Cannonball is the fifth full-length album by German thrash metal band Destruction, released in 1998. It was the final album made with Thomas Rosenmerkel on vocals, thus ending the ""Neo-Destruction"" period. They released 3 albums with Rosenmerkel on vocals: Destruction, Them Not Me and The Least Successful Human Cannonball, although these albums aren't part of the official discography. It incorporates some progressive rock elements as well as some groove/funk metal influence.
Them Not Me is an EP by German thrash metal band Destruction. The period without Schmier is often called ""Neo-Destruction"". They released 3 albums with Thomas Rosenmerkel on vocals: Destruction, Them Not Me and The Least Successful Human Cannonball, although these albums aren't part of the official discography.
True Kings of Norway is a compilation featuring early 7"" EPs of five well-known Norwegian black metal bands. The booklet comes with a flow chart tracking all the bands in which the members from the five bands in the split played in.
Unholy Crusade is the third album by Swedish black metal band Lord Belial. It was released in 1999 by No Fashion Records. The tenth and last track on this album is the second part of the twenty-minute-long song ""Realm of A Thousand Burning Souls"" from their second album named Enter The Moonlight Gate.
Voices Of Transgression – A 90s Retrospective is a compilation album by German thrash metal band Kreator. It was released in 1999 by G.U.N. Records. This ""best of"" collection, compiled by Mille Petrozza, includes only songs from the band's albums recorded in the 1990s and features three previously unreleased songs: ""Inferno"", ""As We Watch the West"" and ""Lucretia (My Reflection)"" which was originally written and performed by The Sisters of Mercy.
Alive... in Poland is a live album by the Italian black/speed metal band, Bulldozer, released in 1990.
Dance Got Sick! is the final release by the black/speed metal Bulldozer. It was released in 1992 on Bulld Records.
Fractal Possession is the seventh studio album by Austrian black metal band Abigor. It was released worldwide in 2007.
In the Sign of the Ravens is the debut studio album by the Swedish Viking metal band Mithotyn. It was recorded and mixed in Rolab Music Studio in January 1997. First released in 1997 on Invasion Records and Death Records in the USA (a part of Metal Blade). The album was later reissued through Karmageddon Records featuring different artwork. This release was mistitled In the Sign of the Raven. Soundholic released the album in Japan with two bonus tracks from the Meadow in Silence demo. These bonus tracks were available in the re-issue digipak of King of the Distant Forest.
Infidel Art is a six-track LP released by the Japanese black metal band Sigh. The songs on this album are longer and more atmospheric than those on Sigh's previous effort, Scorn Defeat. Five out of the album's six songs exceed the eight-minute mark.
NWOBHM is an EP by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone, released during summer 2007 as a ""small taster"" for their then-upcoming album F.O.A.D.. NWOBHM is usually referred to as new wave of British heavy metal, but, in this case, NWOBHM means ""New Wave of Black Heavy Metal"". There are four tracks on the CD version, and only two on the 7"" vinyl version. The tracks include a different recording of the song ""Wisdom of the Dead"" and different vocal version of ""Canadian Metal"", plus a cover of ""Bad Attitude"" by the punk rock band Testors (previously issued on Darkthrone's ""Forebyggende Krig"" single).
Neurodeliri is the fourth album by the Italian black/speed metal band Bulldozer. It was released in 1988.
Teach Children to Worship Satan is a cover album by Dark Funeral. The only release to feature Gaahnfaust on drums. Tracks two through five were recorded for various tribute albums. ""An Apprentice of Satan"" was recorded as a preview, and then re-recorded for their next studio album, Diabolis Interium.
The Day of Wrath is the major-label debut album of the Italian blackened speed metal band Bulldozer, released in 1985.
The Final Separation is the second album by the Italian black/speed metal band, Bulldozer, released in 1986.
The Hand and the Sword is Dominion III's debut album.
Total Fucking Necro is a compilation album comprising two complete Anaal Nathrakh demos, Anaal Nathrakh and Total Fucking Necro, and one previously unreleased track from the unreleased We Will Fucking Kill You demo (2001). This album was originally released on Leviaphonic Records in 2000 with only 8 tracks and a different track order.
When Fire Rains Down from the Sky, Mankind Will Reap As It Has Sown is the first EP by British black metal group Anaal Nathrakh. It was released by Mordgrimm Records in Europe and on Earache Records in North America. The EP was written right after The Codex Necro, and features guest appearances by Aborym's Sethlans Teitan on guitar and Attila Csihar of Mayhem on vocals. It was re-released in 2006 with three additional bonus live tracks. ""Genesis of the Antichrist"" is a remake of their earlier song ""Anaal Nathrakh"".
Adimiron Black is the fourth full length album by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna. It was their first Moonfog Productions debut. This recording marked a different sound for Gehenna, as this record has more of a heavier and death metal influence than their earlier recordings.
Deadlights is a three song EP by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna. This ep was released upon their signing to Moonfog Productions. Gehenna released this as a preview of the change in sound of the band. The first track, Deadlights was a song on the upcoming record, Adimiron Black. In Mother's Tomb, the second track, was an outtake from Adimiron Black. The third track, is the original version of Master Satan.
Fas – Ite, Maledicti, in Ignem Aeternum (Latin for ""Divine Law – Go, Accursed, into Everlasting Fire"") is a 2007 album by the black metal band Deathspell Omega. The album takes its title from the Vulgate translation of Matthew 25:41, ""discedite a me maledicti in ignem æternum"", usually quoted as ""ite maledicti in ignem aeternum"". The album was released as a digipak with a 20-page booklet on 16 July 2007 and in the United States on 17 July 2007 through The Ajna Offensive. Ajna has licensed the CD version for the U.S., with Southern Lord Records assisting the distribution and importing a substantial amount of vinyl copies. The line ""Every human being not going to the extreme limit is the servant or the enemy of man"" in ""A Chore for the Lost"" comes from Inner Experience by the French post-surrealist Georges Bataille, a frequent source of lyrical inspiration for Deathspell Omega. Similarly, the first and or last lines of each song, save for the Obombrations, quote My Mother by Bataille.
Phantom Antichrist is the 13th studio album by the German thrash metal band Kreator, released through Nuclear Blast on June 1, 2012. The album entered the US Billboard 200 at #130, selling 3,900 copies in its first week.
Alpha Noir/Omega White is the ninth full-length album by the Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell, released on April 27, 2012. It is the band's first double album.The band's press release cited Bathory, King Diamond, Onslaught, early Metallica, Testament, and Artillery as influences for Alpha Noir, which was described as ""an incendiary album"". Omega White was instead described as an album of ""pure atmosphere and shadow"", an homage to Type O Negative and The Sisters of Mercy and similar to Moonspell's second album Irreligious. Alpha Noir and Omega White were both produced and mixed by Tue Madsen, who had previously worked on the band's Under Satanæ and Night Eternal records.
Death Master is an EP by Toxic Holocaust.
Evangelia Heretika is the second live DVD by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released on November 9, 2010. On March 13, 2011 Evangelia Heretika was certified platinum in Poland.
Gravelord is an EP by Toxic Holocaust.
Helveteshymner is the third full-length album by black metal band Blodsrit; it is also its first album to feature Black Metal music and also it is the first album to make use of Melancholia lyrical themes.
Holiday at Lake Bodom (15 Years of Wasted Youth) is a compilation album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom, featuring one song from Something Wild, three from Hatebreeder, three from Follow the Reaper, four from Hate Crew Deathroll, four from Are You Dead Yet?, one from Blooddrunk, two from Relentless Reckless Forever, and two previously unreleased cover songs. The DVD portion of the package includes ""candid touring and backstage footage from around the world”, plus the music video for ""Shovel Knockout"". The album was released on May 22, 2012.
In Somniphobia is the ninth studio album released by Japanese extreme metal band Sigh. It was released on 13 March 2012 under the independent record label Candlelight Records.
Ocularis Infernum is the second full-length album by black metal band Chubs Wedgwood. It is the second album to feature death metal-type music. It is said by many fans to be the second most loved album.
Only Deaf is Real is a live album by thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust. The release of this album was limited to 500 copies.
Supreme Misanthropy is the first full-length album by Swedish Black Metal band Blodsrit. The album was the first of the Blodsrit band, and featured more death metal type music, but due to the vocals it was and still is today by many of its fans called black metal.
Toxic Thrash Metal is a 2004 compilation album by thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust. It was originally released on cassette tape limited to 500 copies.
Extinct is the tenth full-length album by the Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell, released on March 6, 2015 in several versions with a different cover for each (jewel case, LTD deluxe box, mediabook, Gatefold LP).This album was recorded in Fascination Street Studios, produced and mixed by Jens Bogren. Cover artwork was designed by Seth Siro Anton. It includes guest performance by the pioneering Yossi Sassi on Bozuoukitara, on the track 'Medusalem'.
Naturbål (""Nature's Bonfire"") is the ninth full-length album by Swedish folk metal band Vintersorg. As with the previous three albums, the lyrics are all in Swedish. This is the third of a planned four-album concept series based on the elements, the previous two being Jordpuls and Orkan.
Sacred Warpath is an EP by the German thrash metal band Sodom, released in 2014. The EP contains one original studio track, and live versions of three previously released songs.
Xiądz is the eighth EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released on November 1, 2014, through New Aeon Musick in a limited edition of 2000 copies; all copies were hand numbered by the band. The EP features three tracks, including ""Nieboga Czarny Xiądz"" from The Satanist recording session, ""Towards the Dying Sun We March"" from Evangelion recording session, along with re-recorded ""Moonspell Rites"", originally released in 1994 on And the Forests Dream Eternally EP. The title is of the old Polish language that translates to 'Priest'.
Vagus Vetus is the sixth studio album by Czech black metal band Master's Hammer, released on 18 May 2014 through the band's own record label, Jihosound Records, founded the year prior. It is the group's second concept album so far, the first one being Jilemnický okultista, released in 1992. The album tells the surreal adventures of an imaginary old wanderer, whose name is Vagus Vetus, through an ""unfamiliar labyrinth"" where ""there's nothing good waiting for him. Disgusted with progress and modernity of all kinds, he enjoys listening to Aeolian harps and sounds of postmortal flatulence. He finds his consolation in hedonic experiences of natural origin"". The track ""Panuška"" is a tribute to Czech painter Jaroslav Panuška (1872–1958).
Vracejte konve na místo. (English title: Return Your Watering Cans.) is the fifth studio album by Czech black metal band Master's Hammer, independently-released on 8 February 2012. It was released both on vinyl and CD format; the vinyl version contains two bonus tracks. The album won the Anděl Award 2012 in the category Hard & Heavy. As their names imply, the tracks ""Lovecraft"" and ""Flammarion"" are tributes to horror writer H. P. Lovecraft and astronomer Camille Flammarion, respectively.
Curse of the Cwelled is the seventh studio album by the English folk metal band Forefather. It was officially released on April 23, 2015 in time for St George's Day by their own record label, Seven Kingdoms.
Askel lähempänä Saatanaa is the eighth studio album by the Finnish black metal band Horna. It was released on February 23, 2013. It's the band's first full-length studio album to feature Spellgoth on vocals, having replaced Corvus.
Cypher is the third album by the experimental black metal band Spektr.
Dark Space -I is a demo EP by the Swiss black metal band Darkspace. It was originally released for free download in MP3 format from the band's website in 2002. In 2012, the band re-recorded the EP for a vinyl and CD reissue. ""Dark -1.0"" contains a sample of Kiefer Sutherland as Dr. Daniel P. Schreber from the film Dark City.
Dark Space III I is the fourth album by the Swiss black metal band Darkspace. It was released by Avantgarde Music in 2014, in both a limited edition of 500 hand-numbered Digipak copies and an unlimited jewel case version. ""Dark 4.20"" samples the film 2010.
This is the discography for German heavy metal band Destruction.
Eater of Birds is the second album by the Black Metal band Cobalt. It was released by Profound Lore in 2007. It presents a more progressive and experimental songwriting approach than the band's debut.
Frontschwein (English/German for ""Front Pig"" (slang) (see Glossary of German military terms) ) is the thirteenth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was released on January 19th, 2015, through Century Media Records. It's the first album to feature drummer Fredrik Widigs.
III: Beneath Trident's Tomb is the third and final album by the black metal band Twilight. It was released in 2014.
Leytmotif Luzifer (The 7 Temptations of Man) is the ninth studio album by Austrian black metal band Abigor. It was released on July 18, 2014.
Kodama (Japanese for ""tree spirit"" or ""echo"") is the fifth studio album by French blackgaze band Alcest. It was released on September 30, 2016 via Prophecy Productions. It is a concept album about ""the confrontation of the natural world and the human world"", inspired by Hayao Miyazaki's film Princess Mononoke. Musically the album is a return to the band's earlier blackgaze style, due to Neige's feeling that he ""needed to go for something more punchy, darker, and more personal too."" Kodama is also the first Alcest album to feature Indria Saray performing on bass, though he has played with the band live for many years.
La Grande Danse Macabre is the seventh studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at The Abyss in December 2000 and released on March 5, 2001 by Regain Records. The theme of the album is death, as Nightwing was blood, and Panzer Division Marduk was war, forming a trilogy of ""Blood, War and Death,"" Marduk's vision of what black metal is. La Grande Danse Macabre is the last Marduk album to feature Fredrik Andersson on drums.
Agent Orange is the third studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 1 June 1989 by Steamhammer/SPV. It was their last album with guitarist Frank Blackfire before he left the band and joined Kreator. The lyrical content delves deeply into Tom Angelripper's fascination with the Vietnam War, with a song dedicated to the ground assault aircraft AC-47 as well as the Agent orange defoliant-inspired title-track. It was the first thrash metal album to enter the German album charts where it reached number 36. Agent Orange sold 100,000 copies in Germany alone and marked the commercial break through for the band. The song ""Ausgebombt"" was released on the EP Ausgebombt with German lyrics. In March 2010, Agent Orange was re-released in a digipak with bonus tracks and liner notes containing lyrics and rare photos.
Draugen: Rarities is a 2005 re-release of a bootleg of rarities by the Norwegian black metal act Burzum.
Melissa is the debut studio album by the Danish heavy metal band Mercyful Fate, released on 30 October 1983. It was the first album released by Roadrunner Records. This was also the first Mercyful Fate effort to get an official release in the United States through Megaforce Records, as the self-titled EP was a highly sought after import, and the BBC sessions were only available on bootleg tapes. In 2005, Roadrunner Records re-released this album with several bonus tracks and a bonus DVD. Music is credited to Hank Shermann and lyrics to King Diamond.
Pentagram is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth, released on 12 October 1994 by Embassy Productions. It followed the band's two demo cassettes, A Sorcery Written in Blood and . It was the only album to feature Samoth on bass and Goat Pervertor on drums.
Quintessence is Borknagar's fourth studio album. It was recorded at The Abyss Studios in January 2000 and mixed by Peter Tägtgren. According to interviews, this album was meant to be a strictly straightforward black metal album, as shown on the production quality and the fact that ICS Vortex's vocals are more of the traditional black metal screams and growls, with less clean singing. This album marks bassist Kai K. Lie's departure from the band, with vocalist ICS Vortex taking over bass duties. It also marks the departure of keyboardist Ivar Bjørnson (being replaced with Lars A. Nedland) and drummer Grim (being replaced with Asgeir Mickelson), who incidentally committed suicide a few months before the album's release. This would also be Vortex's last album as vocalist of Borknagar before quitting the band to join Dimmu Borgir (reportedly due to an ultimatum on Øystein Brun's part), until his return in 2010.
Relentless Reckless Forever is the seventh album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom, released on 8 March 2011 through Spinefarm Records / Universal Music/Fearless Records/Nuclear Blast Records.
The Mantle is the second album by American metal band Agalloch. The album was released on August 13, 2002 by The End Records.
Totem is the debut album by the Australian black metal band Nazxul. It was released in 1995.
Heart of the Ages is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band In the Woods... The album was recorded at Star Studios in Norway with production of Trond Breen.
Crush, Kill, Destroy is the second EP released by the Brazilian extreme metal band, Sarcófago. It was released only in Brazil. All of the tracks on this EP can be found on The Laws of Scourge.
Kraft (Norwegian for Power) is the first album by the Norwegian black metal band Vreid.
Night Eternal is the ninth studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell, released on May 16, 2008 in Europe and on June 10, 2008 in North America. It was pre-produced in Portugal with Waldemar Sorychta from 16 November to 30 November 2007 and it was recorded in Denmark at Antfarm studio from 7 January to 31 January 2008.
Desideratum is the eighth full-length studio album by British extreme metal band Anaal Nathrakh. It was released on October 28, 2014, on Metal Blade Records.
Live at the Opera is the first live album by the Norwegian black metal band Satyricon, originally released in 2015 under the Austrian label Napalm Records. It consists of a digipak with two CD and one bonus DVD on limited edition, both with the same songs. Additionally, the album was released in a special edition of three vinyl records. Basically it contains the most tracks from the album Satyricon (2013) and a compilation of some of the best known Satyricon songs from previous albums.
Emperor: The Complete Works is a 15-part box set compilation album by Norwegian black metal band Emperor, to be released in 2016. This box set spans across the entirety of Emperor's career, with all of their past albums carefully remastered for vinyl pressings. Also included in this box set are 3 posters based on previous Emperor album covers (In the Nightside Eclipse, Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk, and IX Equilibrium), a 92-page hardcover foil-stamped book with writings from black metal enthusiast and photographer Dayal Patterson, which includes rare band photos, and a vinyl slipmat. All of which is bundled together in a two-piece outer box made of heavyweight board. All records are housed in triple gatefold jackets with aesthetically-pleasing spot glosses, ultra-fine lamination finishes, and printed inserts applied to the existing album covers. The Complete Works was announced on various forums and social media outlets by Blood Music during June 2015, and later became available for pre-order on Dec. 9th of that same year after announcing each of the compilation's various details. Due to financial problems on PayPal that ensued due to their previous Moonsorrow box set release, The Complete Works could only be purchased for pre-order through bank transfers, international checks, or money orders.
Kannon is the seventh full-length studio album by drone metal band Sunn O))).
NV is a collaborative studio album by Dragged Into Sunlight and Gnaw Their Tongues, released on November 13, 2015 by Prosthetic Records. The music on NV is predominantly influenced by the album Streetcleaner by the British industrial metal band Godflesh, with Justin Broadrick, Godflesh's frontman, acting as producer for the album.
Of Pale White Morns and Darkened Eves is the 3rd EP by Summoning. It is part of the album Old Mornings Dawn.
Celestial Lineage is the fourth full-length studio album by American black metal band Wolves in the Throne Room. It was released through Southern Lord Records on September 13, 2011. On August 9, 2011, ""Woodland Cathedral"" was posted for streaming on National Public Radio.
Live In São Paulo is the second live album by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura. All the tracks were recorded on April 3, 2005, at a concert in São Paulo, Brazil. A DVD was also filmed at the show. The performance of ""Refuse/Resist"" was released as the single for the album. Both were released on November 8, through SPV Records. The album and DVD are the second time that fans can hear singer Derrick Green perform Max Cavalera-era Sepultura songs on an official release. A live version of ""Roots Bloody Roots"" featuring Green was released as a bonus track on Nation.
The Grey is the third EP by American metal band Agalloch. It was released by Vendlus Records on February 29, 2004, in a limited run of 1,000 copies. The two songs on The Grey are reinterpretations of two tracks from The Mantle album. This EP is part of a dichotomy, completed by The White EP.
Woods 5: Grey Skies & Electric Light is the fourth studio album as well as the fifth and final studio release from Woods of Ypres. On February 19, 2013 it was announced that Woods 5 had been nominated for a Juno Award for ""Metal/Hard Music Album of the Year"", along with the likes of Devin Townsend, Cancer Bats and Ex Deo, an award that it went on to win.
Reign of Light is the sixth album by Swiss industrial metal band Samael, released in October 2004 by Galactical.
Tokyo Warhearts is the first live album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom which was recorded in 1999. It was recorded and filmed at Club Citta on 10 and 11 July 1999 in Tokyo. The album was re-released on 29 May 2001. The band and their record label, Spinefarm Records, had plans to release the show as a DVD along with the CD, but they reached the conclusion that there were some mismatches between the video and the audio, as there was video footage from two different shows. Two of the songs from this album have been released separately for promotional purposes and can be found on a Spinefarm DVD compilation: Silent Night, Bodom Night and Deadnight Warrior. Track 1 covers a segment of Jan Hammer's ""Crockett's Theme"" from the Miami Vice soundtrack. At the end of track 6 a brief part of the riff of ""Crazy Nights"" by Loudness is played. Loudness is a Japanese band. They later covered the song and released it as a bonus track with the album Halo of Blood. The intro for track 9 is a strain of music called ""Hummel Gets the Rockets"" which was composed by Hans Zimmer and Nick Glennie-Smith for the 1996 film The Rock.
Addicts: Black Meddle, Pt. II is the fifth full-length album by Chicago band Nachtmystium. It was released via Century Media Records in the United States on June 8, 2010, and by Candlelight Records in Europe a few days later. The recording took place in January 2010 at Volume Studios in Chicago, IL. Mainman Blake Judd said this about the new album: The new material is reminiscent of Assassins with more of a rock and roll edge over all. Our love for post-rock and industrial (a la Ministry, Killing Joke, etc.) is even more present this time around. We're hoping to make a record that will continue to push extreme music into uncharted territories. The album artwork was made by Derek Lea, Jimmy Hubbard and Seldon Hunt. A promotional video on YouTube for the album was released by Century Media on YouTube on April 18, 2010. All music was written by Nachtmystium, all lyrics written by Chris Black, except ""Ruined Life Continuum"" which features lyrics by Blake Judd and Chris Black.
Nachtmystium is an EP by Nachtmystium. Regimental Records: CD limited to 1000 copies.Painiac Records: vinyl version limited to handnumbered 400 copies.Battle Kommand Records re-release done in November 2005, with new artwork.Reissued with 'Reign of the Malicious' on CD by Desire of Goat Productions in 2005, limited to 500 copies.
Against the Seasons: Cold Winter Songs from the Dead Summer Heat is the first release and only EP from the Canadian black metal/doom metal group Woods of Ypres. It was recorded in August, 2002 at Spectre Sound Studios in Tecumseh, Ontario. It is Woods of Ypres' only album featuring founding members Brian McManus and Aaron Palmer, and their only CD on which David Gold does not contribute any vocals or guitar work. This album was remastered by producer, and then-bassist, Dan Hulse in 2005 and re-released with new artwork that summer. A limited run of the album on cassette was also issued that year through Night Birds Records. The whole EP (save for ""Awaiting the Inevitable"") was later re-issued as part of Woods of Ypres' 2009 compilation CD Independent Nature 2002-2007. Each song on the album would remain a frequent addition in Woods of Ypres setlists to varying degrees since this EP was released.
At One with the Shadows is the first album released by American thrash/black metal band Skeletonwitch, released through Shredded Records. The album is currently out of print.
Breathing the Fire is the third album by American heavy metal band Skeletonwitch. It was released on October 13, 2009. The first album to feature bassist Evan Linger.
Circle the Wagons is the 14th album by the Norwegian band Darkthrone. The album was released on 5 April 2010. Fenriz, the band's drummer, described the music as Darkthrone's ""own brand of heavy metal/speed metal-punk"" and declared it a further shift from their old black metal style. About half of the album was written by Fenriz and half by Nocturno Culto. The catalog number ""ANTI-KING OV HELL 001"" appears in the liner notes of the album.
Demonoir is the fifth full-length album by Norwegian black metal band 1349. The new album shows ""a return to the band's more traditional, raw-yet-technical black metal sound."" It was released on 26 April 2010 in Europe and the day after in North America.
HeXaeon is the sixth studio album by Norwegian death metal band Aeternus.Even though drummer S. Winter is mentioned officially at the credits of the album, all drums were recorded by Erik Vrolok a bit before he left the band.
Pursuit of the Sun & Allure of the Earth is the first full-length album by the Canadian black metal band Woods of Ypres. It was recorded in 2004 at Spectre Sound in Tecumseh, Ontario. This marked Woods of Ypres' first release with David Gold on vocals and guitar as well as drums, along with the first appearance of keyboardist Jessica Rose. Steve Jones & Connor Sharpe supplied most of the lead guitar and bass work for this album, but were uncredited in the album booklet due to leaving Woods of Ypres before its release. Four songs from this album were later re-issued in Woods of Ypres' 2009 compilation CD Independent Nature 2002-2007. That same year, the band re-released their song Allure of the Earth from this album as a vinyl-only single, accompanied by a cover of it by Australian cellists Sebastian Simpson & Chris Doig. Songs from this album were not a frequent sight at recent Woods of Ypres concerts. Only ""The Sun Was in My Eyes (Part I)"" has been documented as a full setlist addition since 2009, though shortened versions of ""Summer's Envy"" & ""The Ghosts of Summers Past"" have been played in a medley style occasionally in the band's later years.
Worship The Witch is the first EP released by American thrash/black metal band Skeletonwitch.
Écailles de Lune (English: Moon Scales) is the second studio album by French shoegazing band Alcest, released on March 29, 2010 by Prophecy Productions. It is the first album featuring Winterhalter on drums, marking it the first release of the band without Neige as sole member and instrumentalist. Although it continues into the direction started with the first album Souvenirs d'un autre monde, Écailles de Lune marks a darker, louder transition into Shoegazing, while also coming back to the band's black metal origins as its first release to feature harsh vocals. ""Solar Song"" marks the first song of the band in English language, and ""Sur l'océan couleur de fer"" is a musical version of a poem by Paul-Jean Toulet.
The discography of Children of Bodom, a five-piece melodic death metal band from Espoo, Finland. Throughout their career, the band has been known to incorporate many different musical styles, leading critics and fans to label them as everything from melodic death metal and black metal to thrash metal, progressive metal and even power metal.The current band line-up includes the founders Alexi Laiho (vocals/lead guitar) and Jaska Raatikainen (drums) along with Roope Latvala (rhythm guitar), Janne Wirman (keyboards) and Henkka Seppälä (bass). Children of Bodom have released six studio albums, two live albums, one compilation album, seven singles, two EP's and two split singles. Moreover, in the period 1994–1996 they released three demos under their old moniker, ""IneartheD"". This list includes the material released as IneartheD. Children of Bodom's first release under their new name was the split single Children of Bodom, released in January 1997. Their debut album Something Wild followed later the same year. 1999 saw the release of two Children of Bodom albums: their second studio album, Hatebreeder, and their first live album, titled Tokyo Warhearts.In 2001 they released their third studio album, Follow the Reaper, which had the very successful single Hate Me!. Follow the Reaper was the first Children of Bodom album to go gold in their home country of Finland. After renewing their contract with Spinefarm Records, thereby gaining the support of the major recording company Universal Music Group, the band recorded their fourth studio album Hate Crew Deathroll, which was released in 2003 to considerable commercial success. Hate Crew Deathroll was the first Children of Bodom album to 'simplify' their heavy metal in order to have a broader appeal: the guitars used more heavy riffs than their earlier releases, it had emphasis on a clear musical structure and the instrumental virtuosity had been significantly reduced. Rhythm guitarist Alexander Kuoppala left the band during the tours following Hate Crew Deathroll, and was replaced with Roope Latvala of Stone fame.On their fifth studio album, released in 2005 as Are You Dead Yet?, the band continued to explore the traits exhibited on Hate Crew Deathroll. The album got mixed reviews, with some critics praising the new sound, while others slammed it for being too ""awesome for their close minded tastes"".Blooddrunk, was released in April 2008. The album Relentless Reckless Forever was released in March 2011 while they were on The Ugly World Tour 2011. Their album Halo of Blood was released in 2013.
Dark Funeral is the debut EP by Swedish black metal band Dark Funeral. It was released in 1994. This is the only release with Draugen.
In Sorte Diaboli (Latin for ""In league with the devil"") is the eighth studio album by Norwegian symphonic black metal band Dimmu Borgir, released in 2007. It is the band's first concept album. A site on the Nuclear Blast website was created for In Sorte Diaboli, in which a new promotional photo can be seen and an audio sample can be heard. This would be the last album by Dimmu Borgir to feature ICS Vortex, Hellhammer and Mustis.
The Secrets of the Black Arts is the debut album by Dark Funeral, released on January 28, 1996, by No Fashion Records. It was re-released on July 31, 2007, with a bonus disc consisting of the album original recording. The only album to feature guitarist Blackmoon, vocalist/bassist Themgoroth and drummer Equimanthorn. The original recording was produced by Dan Swanö at Unisound Studios. According to Blackmoon, he insisted that they re-record the album due to ""severely unprofessional production and manner from Mr. Swanö"". He continued, ""He was overworked and mentally tired when we came to the studio. Also, our then-drummer was not playing as good as he should have. So it ended up crap."" The rest of the band was satisfied with the recording, but Blackmoon refused to release the album with that recording. They decided on The Abyss Studio and recorded the album that was eventually released to the public. A music video was shot for ""The Secrets of the Black Arts"".
Attera Totus Sanctus (intended Latin translation of ""Destroy All the Holy"") is Dark Funeral's fourth full-length studio album. It was released on October 24, 2005, in Europe through Regain Records, and on November 29, 2005, in the United States through Candlelight Records USA. The title was chosen to convey the band's vehement anti–Right-Hand Path stance. Attera Totus Sanctus is the first album to feature guitarist Chaq Mol and the last album to feature drummer Matte Modin and also features session bassist Gustaf Hielm.
Diabolis Interium (grammatically incorrect Latin, intended to mean ""Devil Within"") is the third studio album by Swedish black metal band Dark Funeral, released on September 24, 2001. It was recorded and mixed between January 21 and March 2 at The Abyss Studio and was the band's last album to be released through No Fashion Records. Diabolis Interium is the first album to feature drummer Matte Modin and the only album to feature guitarist Dominion and also marked the end of vocalist Emperor Magus Caligula's role as a bassist for Dark Funeral, both studio and live. The Regain Records 2007 re-release contains a second disc consisting of the EP Teach Children to Worship Satan.
Elegant... and Dying is the second studio album by Australian gothic metal band Virgin Black. The album was released in June, 2003, on The End Records. Publications such as The Village Voice praised the album. Prior to the release of the album, the vocalist Rowan London took lessons from a professional opera singer, bolstering the album's operatic elements further.
The following is the complete discography of the German thrash metal band Kreator.
Temples of Ice is the seventh studio album by English heavy metal band Venom. It was released on Under One Flag records in 1991, and marketed and distributed by Music for Nations.
The Call of the Wintermoon is a song by the black metal band Immortal from their album Diabolical Fullmoon Mysticism. The song is notable for its music video, in which members of the band run furiously amok in a forest and through the site of the ancient ruins of Lyse Abbey, wearing corpse paint (and other articles such as a wizard costume), brandishing various weapons and, among other things, breathing fire. Being the drummer at time of shootings, Kolgrim appears in the music video, despite having nothing to do with the studio track (the drums were recorded by his predecessor Armagedda). It was, however, soon afterwards described by the band as a huge mistake as the TV company that made the video mocked them in an interview which took place after the video was aired, labeling them Satanic. In the same interview Abbath points that the whole video was recorded within two hours and that they had nothing to do with planning its production. Abbath closes his commentary about the video saying ""Anyway, we were stupid enough to rush into it. As I can remember we were a bit confused in those days."" It was also in this interview that Kolgrim invented the term ""holocaust metal"" which sparked controversy. The title of the band's next album Pure Holocaust was in reference to this.
Trance is the debut EP by Australian band, Virgin Black. It was an independently funded and released three track EP. It was later re-released as a bonus disk on a 2002 re-pressing of Sombre Romantic.
Virgin Black is the debut demo by Australian band, Virgin Black released in 1996.
Beneath the Remains is the third studio album and major label debut by Brazilian thrash metal band Sepultura, released on April 7, 1989. It was their first release by Roadrunner Records.
Roots is the sixth studio album by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura. It was released on February 20, 1996 by Roadrunner Records, and was the band's last studio album to feature founding member and vocalist Max Cavalera. Following the experimentalism of the album Chaos A.D., Roots has more influence from Brazilian musical rhythms, and features Brazilian musician Carlinhos Brown, percussionist David Silveria, turntablist DJ Lethal, and vocalists Jonathan Davis and Mike Patton. Roots sold more than 2 million copies worldwide. The album has been identified as influential to the nu metal scene that followed in its wake, and helped lay the framework for the sound of Cavalera's later project, Soulfly.
Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Emperor. It was released on 8 July 1997 through Candlelight Records and Century Black.
Arise is the fourth studio album by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura, released in 1991 by Roadrunner Records. Upon its release, the album received top reviews from heavy metal magazines such as Rock Hard, Kerrang! and Metal Forces. Arise is considered Sepultura's finest hour among longtime fans. While the music on Arise was mostly in the same death/thrash style as their previous album, Beneath the Remains, it was clear that the Sepultura sound was acquiring an experimental edge. The album presented their first incursions with industrial music, hardcore punk and Latin percussion. The tour (1991–1992) that supported the album was the group's longest at that time, totalling 220 shows in 39 different countries. During this trek, the album went gold in Indonesia—the band's first music industry certification. By the tour's end, Arise had achieved platinum sales worldwide.
Demise is the second full-length album by Nachtmystium. It is their final album to feature a straightforward black metal sound.
Dirty is the sixth studio album by the Italian/Norwegian industrial black metal band Aborym, released on May 28, 2013, through Agonia Records. It's a double album, with the second disc containing re-worked versions of older tracks and covers.
Goatlord is a demo album by Norwegian band Darkthrone, released in 1996. The album was re-released by Peaceville Records in 2011, with new artwork approved by the band and a second disc containing commentary from Fenriz and Nocturno Culto.
Gods of War is Blasphemy's second full-length album, released in 1993. The 1989 demo Blood Upon the Altar has been released as bonus on all of the editions of this album, to compensate for the album's overly short running time. All songs were composed by Blasphemy.
Hell on Earth is the second album by extreme metal band Toxic Holocaust.
Lost Tales is the second EP by Summoning. It consists of two songs: ""Arcenstone"", that was originally written for Silenus' Mirkwood project and ""Saruman"", a song left over from the Dol Guldur sessions in 1996.
M is the debut studio album by the black metal project Myrkur, by Danish musician and singer-songwriter Amalie Bruun. Produced by Kristoffer ""Garm"" Rygg of Ulver, it was released on 21 August 2015 through Relapse Records. Featuring a black and gothic metal sound, the album melds influences from various genres, including second wave black metal, atmospheric post-metal, gothic, darkwave, Scandinavian folk and classical music. The album was named the Best Hard Rock Album of 2015 by Gaffa.
Obedience is the third EP by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at The Abyss in December 1999 and released on February 7, 2000. ""Obedience"" and ""Funeral Bitch"" were re-recorded for the band's 2001 album, La Grande Danse Macabre (the former being retitled ""Obedience unto Death""). Peter Tägtgren, who mixed the band's previous efforts since 1996's Heaven Shall Burn... When We Are Gathered, was not involved with this recording; instead mixing was handled by Tommy Tägtgren. Peter Tägtgren returned to mixing Marduk's recordings in December 2000 when the band began recording La Grande Danse Macabre. Obedience was the first Marduk release by Regain Records.
Rebellion is an EP by Swiss heavy metal band Samael.
Something Wild is the debut full-length album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom, released in 1998.
Tapping the Vein is the fifth studio album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released on 1 August 1992 by Steamhammer/SPV. The album showcases more of a death metal influence compared to previous albums. It is also the last album to feature original member Christian ""Witchhunter"" Dudek on drums.
Triarchy of the Lost Lovers is the third full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. This album was released in April 1996 on Century Media and was the first album to showcase a steady addition of gothic metal influence to their overall sound.
Witchcraft is a studio album by Obtained Enslavement, released in 1997.
Cauldron is a 2008 album by Ruins.
Dead Again is the sixth album by Mercyful Fate, released in 1998 by Metal Blade Records. It marks the first album from Mercyful Fate that Michael Denner is not present on. It also marked a new era for the band, as the production is more muddy and raw, and the guitar tone is more distorted than on the three previous albums. In addition, the album introduced a more complex and arguably progressive sound to several of its tracks.
Kindred Spirits is the fourth studio album by the Northern Irish Celtic metal band Waylander. It was released in 2012 on Listenable Records.
The Sum of All Fears is the second album by Italian black metal group Cultus Sanguine, released in 1999 by the French independent label Season of Mist (who have bands such as Mayhem and Rotting Christ on their roster.
The Underground Resistance is the 15th studio album by Norwegian band Darkthrone. It was released on 25 February 2013.
All Hell Breaks Loose is the sixth studio album by German thrash metal band Destruction, released on April 25, 2000 by Nuclear Blast. It was the first official album released since Cracked Brain in 1990, and the first with Schmier returning to vocals and bass since Release from Agony in 1987. It also marks the return of the band to a three-piece lineup. The album also includes a cover of Metallica song ""Whiplash"".
Drought is an EP by Deathspell Omega. It is the band's first release of new material since their 2010 album Paracletus. It is the final release included in the band's 2012 vinyl box set incorporating the trilogy and related works, suggesting that the band regards it as thematically connected.
The Antidote is the sixth studio album by Portuguese gothic metal band Moonspell, released in 2003 by Century Media. It is regarded as a return to a heavier musical style in comparison to the previous album, Darkness and Hope, although it is nonetheless quite different from all the previous albums. The track list was altered for the vinyl version to better suit the side lengths. The third track, ""Everything Invaded"" had a music video.
Thorns is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band Thorns. It was released in 2001, through Moonfog Productions. The album features guest appearances from Satyr (of Satyricon), Aldrahn (of Dødheimsgard) and Hellhammer (of Mayhem). Stylistically, Thorns is quite different from both Trøndertun and the first Thorns demo, Grymyrk. While it retains the eerie riff structures of those early releases, it displays a strong industrial influence, particularly on tracks like ""Shifting Channels"" and ""Underneath the Universe, Part 1"".
Absu is the fifth studio album by black metal band Absu. It was released on February 16, 2009 (Europe), and February 24, 2009 (USA), by Candlelight Records. It is the debut recording for new members Aethyris MacKay and Zawicizuz, with additional musical contributions from Vastator Terrarum (who left before completing the album) and original guitarist Shaftiel. Ezezu joined the band after the recording process was completed. In October 2009, Candlelight Records announced the album would be re-released and repackaged on January 26, 2010, with a DVD of a live performance in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on June 19, 2009.
De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas is the first full-length studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. Songwriting began in 1987, but due to the suicide of vocalist Per ""Dead"" Ohlin and the murder of guitarist Øystein ""Euronymous"" Aarseth, the album's release was delayed until May 1994. De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas is widely considered one of the most influential black metal albums of all time.
Past Life Trauma (1985–1992) is a compilation album by German thrash metal band Kreator, compiled by lead singer/guitarist Mille Petrozza. It was released in 2000 by Noise Records. Tracks are taken from the albums recorded between 1985 (Endless Pain) and 1992 (Renewal) . Track 5, 8, 9 and 15 are rare tracks.
Symphony For The Devil is Witchery's third full-length studio album after Restless & Dead in 1998 and Dead, Hot And Ready in 1999. ""Symphony..."" was released in 2001 (see 2001 in music) and has received underground acclaim from metal fanzines and webzines. The album continues in the style of previous Witchery releases, with thrash metal riffing and solos, but with a black and death metal influence. This album sees Martin Axe of Opeth on drums, after the departure of Mique. The reissue of the album in 2007 uses slightly different cover art.
The Burning Season is the first EP by Primordial, released in 1999. The title track would be featured on their follow-up full-length Spirit the Earth Aflame as well.
Under Siege (Live in Barcelona) is the first live home video by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura, released in 1991. Directed by Stephen Payne and produced by Stephen Malit, it was recorded during their mid-1991 European Arise tour and prominently features songs from the said album. Barcelona was chosen by Payne as he had heard the crowds there were the best in Europe. This proved to be true. Interspersed between the songs are interviews with the band members in which they discuss their religious views, how they got together and growing up in Belo Horizonte. The video was later remastered and released as part of Chaos DVD.
A Blaze in the Northern Sky is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was released on 26 February 1992 by Peaceville Records. It contained the band's first black metal recordings, and is considered a classic within the genre. It was the first album of what fans dub the ""Unholy Trinity"", the other albums being Under a Funeral Moon and Transilvanian Hunger. The last album to feature bassist Dag Nilsen.
A Quick Fix of Melancholy is the fourth EP by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced in the Winter of 2002, the EP was issued on August 26, 2003 via Jester Records. Essentially a teaser for the forthcoming album, Blood Inside, A Quick Fix of Melancholy is delicate marriage of orchestration and electronica. The text from “Vowels” is by Canadian author Christian Bök, taken from Eunoia (Coach House Books, 2002) and used with permission. “Eitttlane” is a rearrangement of “Nattleite” from 1996 album Kveldssanger. Rygg commented in an interview with Modern Fix, “A Quick Fix of Melancholy was our way of trying to get back into writing songs—or something resembling songs—and also find out where we wanted to take things. I think after all our work with film, which is very kind of aesthetically fixed, you know. We ended up making Blood Inside.”
Bergtatt – Et eeventyr i 5 capitler (translated as ""Spellbound – A Fairy Tale in 5 Chapters"") is the debut studio album by the Norwegian band Ulver, issued on February, 1995 via Head Not Found. The album was recorded at Endless Lydstudio in Oslo in November and December 1994 with Kristian Romsøe as engineer and co-producer. The album was praised for its unique atmosphere and was described as “mysterious, melancholic, eerie, and oddly tranquil.” The archaic Dano-Norwegian lyrics were greatly influenced by Scandinavian folktales and inspired by Baroque poets such as Ludvig Holberg and the hymn-writer Thomas Kingo.
Bestial Devastation is an EP by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura, released in 1985 through Cogumelo Records. It is their first official release, and originally appeared alongside Overdose's Século XX as a split album. Later on, it became the bonus tracks of Morbid Visions's CD version.
Black Metal ist Krieg (German for ""Black Metal Is War"") is the third full-length album by the black metal band Nargaroth. The album's full title is Black Metal ist Krieg: A Dedication Monument, and it was intended to be a tribute to early black metal musicians. It includes four cover songs and much of its lyrics deal with events in the history of black metal. The image on the cover, showing the only member of Nargaroth, René ""Kanwulf"" Wagner, very closely resembles a promotional photograph of infamous black metal musician Varg Vikernes.
The Black Trip album from Swiss heavy metal band Samael is a double DVD set which contains a concert held on Summer Breeze Festival (2002), a live concert held in Kraków, Poland, in 1996 during their ""Passage"" world tour and also a bootleg concert shot in Illinois (USA) during the ""Ceremony of Opposites"" tour. There are also video clips for the songs ""Jupiterian Vibe"", ""Infra Galaxia"" and ""Baphomet's Throne"" as well as some interviews and footage shot at Woodhouse Studios during the making of the Passage album.
Borknagar is the debut studio album by the Norwegian band of the same name. It is their only album to feature lyrics in the Norwegian language and their only album to feature Infernus on bass (who reportedly recorded all the bass tracks in one day), and their only album recorded at Grieghallen Studios (frequented by other black metal bands such as Emperor and Gorgoroth). This album features a more straightforward black/Viking metal approach (featuring raging riffs, blasting tempos and more focus on screaming vocals than cleans) as opposed to the band's now trademark progressive/folk sound they would showcase in the next album, The Olden Domain.
Deathcrush is an EP by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. It was released on 16 August 1987 by the Posercorpse record label, and was the first studio release by any band in the Norwegian black metal scene.
Hate Them is the ninth album by Norwegian black metal band, Darkthrone. It was released by Moonfog Productions in 2003. Like their subsequent release, Sardonic Wrath, the album had an electronic intro and outro created by Lars Sørensen (aka LRZ) from Red Harvest. The cover image was the work of Eric Syre from Thesyre, and incorporated images of the Sagrada Família Catholic church in Barcelona. In 2012, the album was reissued by Peaceville Records, including a bonus CD with audio commentary by the band.
Hliðskjálf is the sixth album by Norwegian band Burzum. This album was the second to be recorded by Varg Vikernes while he was imprisoned for murder and arson and also Burzum's second ambient album. Dauði Baldrs and Hliðskjálf were created with synthesized instruments as he was not allowed any other instruments while being imprisoned. The first pressing of its vinyl format release was pressed on a shiny burnished color reminiscent of gold, instead of the standard black color vinyl record.
Hvis lyset tar oss (Norwegian for If the Light Takes Us) is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal solo project Burzum. It was recorded in September 1992, but was not released until April 1994, whereupon it was released through Misanthropy Records and Vikernes' own record label, Cymophane Productions. The album is considered a classic in the black metal scene.
Kveldssanger (translated as ""Twilight Songs"") is the second studio album by Norwegian band Ulver, issued in March, 1996 via Head Not Found. The album was recorded at Endless Lydstudio, Christiania, Kingdom of Norway in the summer and autumn of 1995, with Kristian Romsøe as engineer and co-producer.
Mercyful Fate is the first official release of Danish heavy metal band Mercyful Fate. It is also known as Nuns Have No Fun, the ""first album"" or the ""EP"". It is a four track, 45rpm effort and was recorded and mixed at Stone Studio in Roosendaal, Netherlands, in two days in September 1982 and released on Rave-On Records as RMLP-002. The album is produced and mixed by Jac Hustinx and engineered by Willem Steetjes. The cover is drawn by Ole Poulsen. The album in its entirety was later re-issued in 1987 as part of The Beginning compilation. There are three pressings: 
*  First pressing is white bordered. 
*  Second pressing is black bordered. 
*  Third pressing is black bordered but distributed by Bertus Holland.
Nattens madrigal – Aatte hymne til ulven i manden (translated as ""Madrigal of the Night – Eight Hymns to the Wolf in Man"") is the third studio album by Norwegian band Ulver, issued on 3 March 1997 via Century Media. Composed and arranged during the first half of 1995, the album purports to be a concept album about wolves, the night, the moon, and the dark side of mankind.
Plaguewielder is the eighth album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was released by Moonfog Productions (the label owned by Satyr Wongraven of Satyricon) in 2001. The album was re-released with new artwork in 2011 by Peaceville Records. The CD reissue included a second disc of commentary from the band members.
Ravishing Grimness is the seventh studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was released by Moonfog Productions in 1999. This album marked a noticeable shift in the band's musical and lyrical scope. While still retaining much of the band's older black metal roots, the music itself was more slow-to-mid-paced with less blast beats than on previous albums, and the album's production was cleaner and clearer; this led to some fan criticism of the band. Nocturno Culto wrote the music for all the songs except ""The Beast"", which was the sole musical contribution by Fenriz, who contributed lyrics instead. The album's lyrics also started to move away from the group's original ideas, taking on more mysterious and avant-garde topics versus the Satanic/anti-religious themes of old albums. In the album's booklet, Nocturno Culto was credited as ""Nocturnal Cult"". Also, all the Ts in the liner notes and lyrics were replaced with inverted crosses. Ravishing Grimness was re-released with new artwork in 2011 by Peaceville Records.
Return of the Vampire is a compilation album of rare demo tracks by Mercyful Fate recorded before their first, official release in 1982. It is released in 1992 by Roadrunner Records RRD 9184. The album cover was painted by Torbjorn Jorgensen / Studio Dzyan.
Revolusongs is an EP of cover songs released by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura in 2003 through SPV Records. It was exclusively released in Brazil and Japan. The EP contains seven cover songs. The cover of U2's ""Bullet the Blue Sky"" was released as a single, but as a part of their next album, Roorback. Revolusongs was later included as a bonus disc on the digipak and vinyl LP editions of Roorback, minus the final song and video tracks.
Roorback is the ninth studio album by Brazilian heavy metal band Sepultura, released in 2003, through SPV Records.
Sardonic Wrath is the 10th album by the Norwegian black metal band, Darkthrone. It was released by Moonfog Productions in 2004, and was the band's last album on that record label. Although punk influences were already apparent, it would be Darkthrone's last album recorded solely in the black metal style. Their subsequent albums featured much stronger punk traits. However, Einar Sjursø observed in Terrorizer that ""even if there is a certain punk attitude to the odd riff here and there"" it is a case of ""the diabolic duo [Fenriz and Nocturno Culto]...simply drawing more influences into the Darkthrone melting pot, turning them into crystalline Darkthrone riffs [author's emphasis]"". The entire album was leaked on the Internet beginning in April 2004, long before the September 2004 release date. However, the final release of the album was considerably different from version on the Internet leak. On the song ""Hate is the Law"", vocals were performed by Fenriz and Apollyon. Oddly, the closing song, ""Rawness Obsolete"", was listed on many lyric sites as an instrumental. This can be attributed to the lack of any printed lyrics in the accompanying booklet.
Soulside Journey is the first studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was released in January 1991 by Peaceville Records. It is notable as the band's only death metal album, before they became an integral part of the Norwegian black metal scene.
Storm of the Light's Bane is the 1995 album release by Swedish extreme metal band Dissection. That same year, Nuclear Blast released a Europe-exclusive special digipak version of the album limited to 500 copies, which upon unfolding formed the shape of a cross with the song's lyrics printed on the sleeves. This would be the band's last full-length album before Nödtveidt's 1997 incarceration for felony murder. As with the band's debut album, Kristian Wåhlin created the cover art.
The Archaic Course is Borknagar's third studio album and their first to feature ICS Vortex (Simen Hestnæs) on vocals replacing Garm (who, according to Øystein Brun, ""didn't want to scream anymore""), along with the addition of guitarist Jens F. Ryland. The album also features guest contributions from Enslaved guitarist Ivar Bjørnson, although he was not listed as part of the band in the credits. This is also the last album to feature the original drummer and one of the founders of the band, Erik ""Grim"" Brødreskift, before he died from a drug overdose.
The Bell Witch is a short, promotional EP released by Mercyful Fate to herald the band's reunion album. It features two tracks off In the Shadows, of which one is based on the American legend of the Bell Witch, plus four live tracks. The EP was released in 1994. It was re-released in 2004 on Metal Blade Records.
The Olden Domain is the second studio album by the Norwegian band Borknagar, and their first to feature English lyrics. It also marks the beginning of the band's transition to its trademark progressive/folk/black metal sound featured on later records. This would be the band's last studio album to feature Fiery G. Maelstrom on vocals. It is also their first album to feature Kai K. Lie on bass, replacing Infernus.
The Trilogie – Three Journeyes Through the Norwegian Netherworlde, sometimes shortened to The Trilogie, is a box set of albums by Norwegian black metal band Ulver, issued in 1997 via Century Media. Limited to 1000 copies, the set collects together Ulver's first three full-length albums, Bergtatt, Kveldssanger and Nattens madrigal in LP Picture Disc format, housed in a cardboard box, with a booklet & bonus posters. The set commemorates Ulver's black metal phase, before shifting styles dramatically into more ambient, electronic, and experimental music.
Themes from William Blake's The Marriage of Heaven and Hell is the fourth studio album by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced with Kristoffer Rygg, together with Knut Magne Valle and Tore Ylwizaker, it was issued on December 17, 1998 via Jester Records. It is a musical setting of William Blake's poem The Marriage of Heaven and Hell. The album blended electronics, industrial music elements, progressive metal and avant-garde rock, adding ambient passages, following Blake's plates as track indexes. Stine Grytøyr, Ihsahn, Samoth and Fenriz all feature as guest vocalists. The album received widespread acclaim from critics within both the rock/metal and alternative music press - being awarded Album of the Month in several high-profile magazines such as Terrorizer, Metal Hammer, and Rock Hard and ranked very highly in their end of year's best polls. However, the album’s transitional nature perhaps alienated many fans of the band’s first three albums - causing a backlash from the black metal scene. Controversial director of films Kids and Gummo, Harmony Korine, recently commented, alluding to The Marriage of Heaven and Hell: ""There's a real lineage from a composer like Wagner to a band like Ulver.""
Total Death is the sixth album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was recorded in August and October 1995 at Ancient Specter Ruins and released in 1996. All of the album's lyrics were written either by members of other black metal bands or Nocturno Culto (unlike the band's usual method on other Darkthrone albums in which Fenriz is the main lyricist). The album was released on CD and LP by Moonfog Productions. The LP had different cover art. In March 2011, Total Death was reissued by Peaceville Records with an extra track and an extra CD of commentary by the band members. The extra track was recorded around the same time as the album and appeared on a compilation for Moonfog Productions.
Transilvanian Hunger is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was released in February 1994 by Peaceville Records.
Under a Funeral Moon is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Darkthrone. It was recorded in June 1992 and released in June 1993 by Peaceville Records. Under a Funeral Moon was the last album on which guitarist Zephyrous (Ivar Enger) performed; he left the band shortly after its release.
Zîrnindu-să is Negură Bunget's first album, recorded in only 20 hours at Magic Sound Studio in Bucharest. First released on cassette in 1996 by the Romanian label Bestial Records, it has been reissued three times: in 1998 on CD (a limited edition of 500) by the American label Breath of Night Records, in 2003 on vinyl (also a limited edition of 500) on Darkland Records, and in 2004 as part of the band's Negură Bunget Box set. All of the reissues were remastered. A 2008 version of the album was also remastered and includes an older recording of the entire album.
A Dead Poem is the fourth full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. The band slowed down their tempos significantly and added occasional usage of acoustic guitars and regional music, making this particular record one of their more mainstream of releases, and the farthest removed from black metal music styles. Moonspell's Fernando Ribeiro contributed backing vocals to the track ""Among Two Storms"". It was produced at Woodhouse Studios in Hagen, Germany by Xy, programmer/percussionist for Samael, who also contributed keyboards to some tracks.
Are You Dead Yet? is the fifth album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom. It was released in Finland on September 14, 2005 and internationally on October 25, 2005 under the Century Media label. It is the first Children of Bodom album to feature guitarist Roope Latvala (Stone, Sinergy, ex-Waltari), due to the departure of Alexander Kuoppala. In this album, the band used the drop C tuning, whereas they usually used D standard. The power metal influences previously prominent are also greatly reduced in this album, resulting in a more simplistic performance and slower tempos. The keyboards also were dropped lower in the mix, with the guitars maintaining musical dominance.
Bestbreeder from 1997 to 2000 is the 2003 compilation CD from Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom. The live tracks off the album are available on Tokyo Warhearts. This album was only released in Japan.
Blood Ritual is the second album by the Swiss heavy metal band Samael, released in 1992 on the Century Media Records label.
Ours Is the Kingdom is the fourth album by English metal band Forefather. Its title is a play on the line of the Lord's Prayer ""For thine is the kingdom, the power and the glory"". The lyrics of the track are a statement against Christianity and a defiant will to reclaim the English kingdom from an alien God. The cover art depicts a dead crusader warrior, an image meant to symbolize Christian decay. ""Our hearts lie not in heaven,Nor Eastern desert sands.""
Passage to Arcturo is the first EP by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ, released in 1991. It was originally an MLP-pressing only: first edition in gatefold cover; second edition with normal cover. The EP was re-released in February 2011 with ""The Old Coffin Spirit (Live)"", ""The Mystical Meeting (Live)"" and ""The Forest of N'Gai (Live)"" as bonus tracks on MCD.
Sanctus Diavolos is the eighth full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. It is also the first release after the departure of long-time guitarist Kostas and keyboardist George. The album features a guest appearance by Gus G. (Dream Evil, Firewind) on guitar, a live choir, and mainman Sakis Tolis handling synthesizers. It was recorded at SCA studios in Greece, and mixed by Fredrik Nordström (Studio Fredman) in Sweden.
Sleep of the Angels is the fifth full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ.Like previous releases A Dead Poem and Triarchy of the Lost Lovers, the band refined their direction to a slower style with more emphasis on atmosphere and melodicism than brutality. Despite mixed critical consensus of the album, it would be supported during the band's first-ever tour in the United States.
Thelema.6 is the fifth album by extreme metal band Behemoth. The album was recorded and mixed at the Hendrix Studios in Poland in July and August 2000 and was then mastered at the High-End Studio in Warsaw, Poland in 2000. The album was re-released in 2000 as a limited digipak edition that was limited to only 1,000 copies. An enhanced audio disc with a video for the song Christians to the Lions was included with the release.
Thy Mighty Contract is the first full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ, released in late 1993 on Osmose Productions. It was re-released by Century Black in January 1998 with two bonus tracks originally released on the Apokathelosis EP and different artwork.
World Funeral is the eighth studio album by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It was recorded and mixed at The Abyss between September and November and was released on March 25, 2003 by Regain Records. The track listing of the album is organized as to create a dynamic change of paces and atmospheres, the tracks generally alternating between a fast, slow, fast, etc. pattern. Balancing fast tracks with mid-paced tracks, it was a disappointment for fans expecting another head-to-toe fast album a la Panzer Division Marduk. Many fans suggested the band was going for a more commercial ""mainstream"" approach while others complimented their attempt to broaden their sound. World Funeral is the first Marduk album to feature Emil Draguntinovic on drums, the last to feature Legion on vocals and B. War on bass, and the last to feature mixing by Peter Tägtgren.
Black Necrotic Obfuscation is the debut EP by the Norwegian electronic/noise/avant-garde metal artist Zweizz. It was released in a limited edition of 512 copies; 256 of these had red transparent vinyl, whereas the remaining 256 had transparent blue vinyl. According to Zweizz mainman Svein Egil Hatlevik, both songs featured on Black Necrotic Obfuscation were originally intended to be used in his other band Fleurety, but since this band is active to a very small extent, Hatlevik finished the songs himself.
Blooddrunk is the sixth album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom, released on April 7, 2008, through Spinefarm Records. The album includes a re-recorded version single for ""Tie My Rope"". Various editions feature one or two cover songs as bonus tracks. The limited edition digipak version of the album includes a bonus DVD with 5.1 surround mixes of all songs and the video and making-of for ""Blooddrunk"". It sold 20,000 copies during its first week of release. The band recorded a cover of the Suicidal Tendencies song ""War Inside My Head"" during the recording sessions for this album, but the song was not released on Blooddrunk. The song was released on the cover album Skeletons in the Closet together with two new covers plus some old ones as well. The song ""Done With Everything, Die For Nothing"" is a playable song in Guitar Hero 5, while some players consider it to be one of the game's harder songs. The album includes more thrash metal than its predecessors.
Bringing the Cold to Poland is Catamenia's first live DVD released by Massacre Records on 27 November, 2006, in Europe and on 16 January, 2007, for the rest of the world. It contains just over 50 minutes of a live show recorded in the Stodola Club in Warsaw, Poland. Metal Mind Productions is licensed to Massacre Records for the release of the live DVD. There is also a limited edition version that includes an audio CD.
Chaos Born is the fifth full-length album by the Finnish melodic black metal band Catamenia. It was released on May 26, 2003, through Massacre Records.
Deathmarch is the fourth EP by Swedish black metal band Marduk. It features an alternative cut, a b-side, and two rehearsal takes of songs from Marduk's ninth studio album, Plague Angel, released a month prior. Deathmarch is titled after a song of the same name which also appeared on Plague Angel, although the song does not appear on this EP.
Eskhata is the fourth full-length album by the Finnish melodic black metal band Catamenia. The album was released on April 29, 2002, by Massacre Records and was distributed by Sony.
Eternal Winter's Prophecy is the third full-length album by the Finnish melodic black metal band Catamenia. The album was released on August 21, 2000, by Massacre Records.
Halls of Frozen North is the first album by the Finnish melodic black metal band Catamenia. It was released on January 20, 1998, by Massacre Records.
I Krig is the third album by the Norwegian black metal band Vreid.
Location: COLD is the seventh full-length album by the Finnish melodic black metal band, Catamenia. Making guest appearances on the album are Kakke Vähäkuopus, providing clean vocals, and Antti Haapsamo, providing additional vocals on tracks 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Music videos were made for the songs, ""Location:COLD"", ""The Day When the Sun Faded Away"" and the video for ""Tuhat Vuotta"" was recorded in their studio. The album features ""I Wanna Be Somebody"", a cover version of the song by heavy metal band W.A.S.P.
Morning Crimson is the second full-length album by the melodic black metal band Catamenia.
Requiem – Fortissimo is the third part of Virgin Black's Requiem album trilogy and its second installment since Requiem - Mezzo Forte. The album was released on February 19, 2008. The music on this album is in a death/doom style reminiscent of early 1990s British groups like My Dying Bride and Paradise Lost. Metal Storm voted Requiem - Fortissimo as The Best Doom Metal Album of 2008.
Thanatiphoro Anthologio (""Deadly Anthology"" in Greek) is a compilation album spanning the entire career of the Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. The album was released by Century Media on November 6, 2007, and features two discs of fan favorites, demo rarities, archived photos, and an in depth article of praise from AnneMarie Bowman of Metal Maniacs magazine.
The Laws of Scourge is the second studio album by the Brazilian extreme metal band Sarcófago. It was during this time that the band's lyrical content had begun to shift from Satanism, choosing to delve into more ""realistic"" topics. For example, ""Midnight Queen"" is about a prostitute, while ""Screeches From The Silence"" is about living ""in the fast lane"". The album also marked a change in the band's musical style, moving from their signature hyperspeed black/death to technical death metal, and the sound quality had improved from I.N.R.I. This was also the last full-length record to feature a drummer, as from ""Hate"" onwards, the band would use a drum machine.
The Waste Lands is the eighth studio album by British heavy metal band Venom. It is the last with bassist/singer Tony ""Demolition Man"" Dolan and also the last before the reunion of the classic Venom line-up from their first four albums, Welcome to Hell, Black Metal, At War with Satan and Possessed. The working title for this album was ""Kissing the Beast"", but the band changed it when they saw the cover.
The Yawn of the New Age is the debut album by the Norwegian electronic/noise/avant-garde metal artist Zweizz. All music and lyrics are created by Svein Egil Hatlevik, except ""Blacker Than Darkness"", which is an adaptation of the song by the same title, written by Norwegian black metal group Immortal.
To the Nameless Dead is the sixth studio album by the Irish black metal band Primordial, released in 2007. It is also available in a limited edition as a digibook, featuring a different cover design, a 40-page booklet, and a bonus DVD. The album was recorded at Foel Studio, Wales, with producer Chris Fielding. It was recorded using all analog equipment and using mostly first or second takes for the final recording, making for a more raw and spontaneous sound. To The Nameless Dead received virtually universal and overwhelming praise, rising to such accolades as being named 2008's Metal Album of the Year by Chronicles of Chaos (continuing an unprecedented back to back honoring for Primordial by the webzine).
Turning Season Within is Draconian's third studio album. It was released on February 29, 2008 (March 4 in the US), through Napalm Records. This album also features Paul Kuhr from Novembers Doom on the track September Ashes. The album's main theme is a failed relationship between two lovers.
Krebskolonie is the second studio album by the heavy metal band Eisregen. It was released in 1998 on Last Episode.
The discography of Behemoth, a Polish blackened death metal band consists of ten studio albums, two live albums, two compilation album, seven extended plays, three video albums, twelve music videos, three demo albums, and one split album. Formed by Nergal during mid-1991, Behemoth release their first record a year later with the rehearsal tape Endless Damnation, followed by the 1993's demos The Return of the Northern Moon, and …From the Pagan Vastlands. Later that year, Behemoth sign with the Italian independent record label, Entropy and release the EP And the Forests Dream Eternally in 1994, followed by the debut full-length, 1995's Sventevith (Storming Near the Baltic). Behemoth sign a deal with Solistitium Records, and released their second studio album, Grom in 1996. The third album, titled Pandemonic Incantations was released in 1998, the first with drummer Inferno. Later that year the group sign a record deal with label Avantgarde Music—the first album released was Satanica in 1999, followed by 2000's Thelema.6, and Zos Kia Cultus (Here and Beyond), issued in 2002. Behemoth signed a deal with Swedish label Regain Records in 2003, and later that year two members joined the band; bassist Orion, along with session guitarist Seth. With this new line-up they released Demigod in 2004, followed by 2007's The Apostasy, the first ever Behemoth album that did chart, peaked at number 149 on the US Billboard.
Bergen 1996 is a live EP by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. It was released in November 2007 on 7"" vinyl picture disc by Infernus's record label Forces of Satan Records, and on CD by Regain Records. The tracks were recorded live at Maxime in Bergen, Norway, on 23 May 1996. It was previously released in 1996 as The Last Tormentor on 7"" red vinyl, in a limited pressing of 666 copies.
Beyond the Permafrost is the second album by American thrash/black metal band Skeletonwitch. The album blends thrash metal and influence from the NWOBHM movement with death/black metal vocals. The songs, while aggressive, also have melodic parts.
Cast in Stone is the ninth album by heavy metal band Venom, and also their first album in 12 years to feature the original lineup. Recorded at Lartington Hall Studios near Barnard Castle, it was released on SPV/Steamhammer in 1997. It is the last Venom album to feature Abaddon on drums.
Christcrusher is the third and final full length album by black metal band Thy Serpent. It is named after the sixth track on the album. It was recorded at Tico Tico Studios and features a more traditional black metal sound.The Band considers themselves to be an ""Anti-Christian band"" rather than a black metal band,They believe that black metal is supposed to be satanic.Since none of the band members are satanists,they don't consider themselves to be black metal.
D.E.V.O.L.U.T.I.O.N. is the tenth studio album by German thrash metal band Destruction. The album was released on August 29, 2008 by AFM Records worldwide and Candlelight Records in the United States. The album features three guitarists as guest appearances — Gary Holt of Exodus and Slayer and Jeff Waters of Annihilator, both playing solos in the song ""Urge (The Greed of Gain)"", in addition to Vinnie Moore from UFO. All the first letters of each track on the record spell out the word ""devolution.""
Eine Kleine Nachtmusik is a live album released by English heavy metal band Venom in 1986. It contains partial recordings of two different concerts with two different setlists. The first disc contains a show recorded at Hammersmith Odeon in London on 8 October 1985 and the second disc recorded at The Ritz in New York City on 4 and 5 April 1986. The title Eine Kleine Nachtmusik is German for ""A Little Night Music"". The title is taken from Mozart's piece of the same name.
In the Glare of Burning Churches is the fifth demo album by the black metal band Graveland. It was originally released in 1993, on cassette format, on Witching Hour Productions. It was then re-released on No Colours Records in 1996 on CD format, and again on the same label and format in 1999 along with Epilogue. The demo is ""inspired by 'Holy War' waged in Norwegian Black Metal underground against christianity"". It was indexed by the German Federal Department for Media Harmful to Young Persons in September 2008.
My Skin Is Cold is the third EP by Norwegian black metal band Satyricon. It contains one new song, two re-mastered, and two live songs with an orchestra playing with the band.
The Celtic Winter is the first EP by the black metal band Graveland. It originally was planned as an EP for Hammer of Damnation Records, but this release failed due to financial reasons. So it was released as the 6th demo tape in 1994 on Melissa Productions. It was re-released on MCD format in 1994 with only three songs, and then re-released again on CD format in 1996 by No Colours Records. It was rereleased several times by different labels. It was indexed by the German Federal Department for Media Harmful to Young Persons in September 2008, so it appears under the name Evarg - TCW at the No Colours Catalogue.
True Norwegian Black Metal – Live in Grieghallen is Gorgoroth's first full-length live album, released by Regain Records. It was recorded live in the studio at Grieghallen Lydstudio in Bergen and Threeman Recordings in Stockholm. The songs on the album represented the most commonly played songs in Gorgoroth's live set. The cover design by Magnus Wohlfart was radically different from the previous three full-length albums, being more reminiscent of the cover of the album Under the Sign of Hell (1997). Most of the album was recorded before the departure of vocalist Gaahl and bass guitarist King ov Hell, who had intended on using the band's name and assets. The bass guitar for this album (originally performed by King ov Hell) was later re-recorded by guitarist and band founder Infernus. Infernus dedicated the album to the late Jon Nödtveidt of Dissection.
Tuatha na Gael is the debut studio album by the Irish celtic metal band Cruachan released in 1995. In 2001, Hammerheart Records reissued the album with three bonus tracks.
Herbstleyd (Autumn Suffering) is the debut studio album of the black metal band Nargaroth. It was released through No Colours Records in December 1998.
Aealo is the tenth full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. It was released on 15 February 2010 via Season of Mist. Vocalist Sakis Tolis stated that ""AEALO is the transcription of the Ancient Greek word 'ΕΑΛΩ' into the Latin alphabet. It means thrashing, catastrophe or destruction, and reflects the musical and lyrical content of the album"".
Cycle Repeats is the debut studio album by the Japanese melodic death metal band Lost Eden. The album was released on March 20, 2007, on Candlelight Records. The album has gained much popularity over the internet since its release.
Dimorphic Cynosure is the fifth studio album by the Austrian death metal band Thirdmoon, released through Maintain Records in 2007.
Eparistera Daimones is the debut album by Swiss extreme metal band Triptykon, the most recent musical project of Thomas Gabriel Fischer, founding member of the pioneering heavy metal bands Hellhammer and Celtic Frost and industrial project Apollyon Sun. The album was released by Prowling Death Records Ltd., under a licensing agreement with Century Media Records on March 22, 2010, and was released by Victor Entertainment Japan on April 21, 2010 with a bonus track, ""Shatter"". Eparistera Daimones was produced by Tom Gabriel Warrior and Triptykon guitarist V. Santura and recorded in V. Santura's own Woodshed Studio in southern Germany, in the course of the second half of 2009. Like Celtic Frost's Monotheist album, Eparistera Daimones was mastered by Walter Schmid at Oakland Recording in Winterthur, Switzerland. The album features artwork by H. R. Giger and Vincent Castiglia. The title of album is originally from Aleister Crowley's Liber XXV: The Star Ruby ritual. Eparistera Daimones (ΕΠΑΡΙΣΤΕΡΑ ΔΑΙΜΟΝΕΣ) in Greek means On my left hand the Daemones or To my left, the demons. ""Myopic Empire"" comes from ""Relinquished Body"", a demo track from Celtic Frost's 2002 demo album ""Prototype"".
FVLGVRES is the second album by the Progressive metal band Janvs. ""Conceptually the album is based upon the shattering of human limits and condition, upon the longing and the temporary conquest of real moments of awareness and contact with the peaks of transcendence.""
Into Infinite Obscurity was the first EP recorded by the Swedish blackened death metal band Dissection, first released on September 5, 1991 in a limited edition of 1000 copies by the French record label Corpsegrinder Records. A second edition was released in 1999 by Nuclear Boom Records.
Róka Hasa Rádió is the fourth full-length album from Hungarian avant-garde metal group Thy Catafalque. It is a concept album about ""the relationship between the ever evolving, solid and massive physical matter and the fragileness of humans and all living spirits, throughout distant childhood memories and scientific explanations of nature. Revolving, rotating movements of past and future, colours, sounds, long lost scents by a strange transmission from a timeless radio."" It features a mix of atmospheric instrumental music, Hungarian folk elements and traditional black metal, making it very experimental. Music videos were made for the songs ""Köd utánam"" and ""Molekuláris gépezetek"".
Sublunary Tragedies is the first full-length release from Hungarian avant-garde metal group Thy Catafalque.
The Underworld Regime is the debut album by Ov Hell. It was released on 8 February 2010.
The Weeping of a Thousand Years is the second full-length album by Deinonychus. It was released in July 1996 on Cacophonous Records.
Tűnő Idő Tárlat is the third full-length release from Hungarian avant-garde metal group Thy Catafalque. This album showed their shift from symphonic black metal to a more electronic and atmospheric based sound, while still retaining their traditional black metal elements. Promo videos for ""Csillagkohó"" and ""Neath Waters (Minden vízbe mártott test)"" have been done. In 2010 Epidemie Records re-released the album in digipak format with different artwork.
Vega is the third album by the Progressive metal band Janvs.
Warfare Machines is the last Deinonychus album made, after the band disbanded in September 2008. It was released by My Kingdom Music.
Constricting Rage of the Merciless is the sixth studio album by American blackened death metal band Goatwhore.
Esoteric Warfare is the fifth full-length studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. It was released by Season of Mist on 6 June 2014 in Europe and Asia, and on 10 June 2014 in North America. It is the band's first album with Teloch on guitar since Blasphemer's departure from the band in 2008.
I Am Not What I Am is the first full release from Young and in the Way. It was self-released on March 24, 2011. It was rereleased in 2012 with the bands Amen EP.
Live At Roadburn (subtitled Eulogy For The Late Sixties) is a live album by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced by Ulver, the album was recorded at the Roadburn Festival, held at 013, Tilburg, in the Netherlands on April 12, 2012, and issued in April 2013 via Roadburn Records. Rygg commented on the release, “This was our pre-release party for the commemorative album Childhood's End, which we had just sewn up when we received the invitation from Roadburn. A one-shot psychedelic blowout or perhaps some sort of karaoke for our vestigial veterans; felt quite invigorating after the doom and gloom of the last few years. We gathered the guys who were involved in the album sessions and rehearsed the songs a couple of days before travelling to Tilburg. Not in total control, but that’s the spirit. Haywire lycanthropy.” Commenting on Ulver’s performance at Roadburn Festival, Jamie Thomson, writing for The Quietus, said, “I was placing a lot of faith in Ulver but ultimately I was to be disappointed. They were playing set of ‘60s psyche covers – and while the band themselves had a pretty good stab at recreating the sounds of the time, the alchemical tools to make it something special seemed just out of frontman Kristoffer Rygg’s reach. Ulver's restless reinvention is rarely less than compelling, so it was unusual to see their ambitions outstrip their ability.”
Sepultado (English: black vomit) is a Brazilian metal band. Sarcófago was the third demo, which was published in 1987. The demo contained two of the band's practice sessions from the same year. Both the demo songs were released in other demos.
When Life Comes to Death is the second studio album by the American Black Metal Band Young and in the Way. The album was released on May 27, 2014 through Deathwish Inc. To promote the album, Young and in the Way released music videos for the songs ""Be My Blood"" and ""Final Dose"". When Life Comes to Death peaked a number 11 on the Billboard 200 Top Heatseekers chart.
Nation is the eighth studio album by the Brazilian metal band Sepultura, released in 2001 through Roadrunner Records. Nation features guest appearances from artists such as Hatebreed singer Jamey Jasta, Dead Kennedys singer Jello Biafra, Ill Niño singer Cristian Machado, Bile frontman Krztoff and Apocalyptica. According to the official site, a video for ""One Man Army"" was scheduled to be filmed at the end of August 2001. However, due to a lack of support from Roadrunner Records, the video was never made. Sepultura blamed Roadrunner Records for not promoting the album and left for SPV Records in 2002.
Cavalcade is the ninth full-length album by the Finnish melodic black metal band Catamenia. It was released on February 26, 2010, via Massacre Records.
Chemistry of Consciousness is the fifth studio album by American thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust, released on October 29, 2013.
Dante XXI is the tenth studio album by the Brazilian metal band Sepultura, released in 2006 through SPV Records. It is a concept album based on the three sections of Dante Alighieri's The Divine Comedy; Inferno (hell), Purgatorio (purgatory) and Paradiso (paradise). This is the last album to feature Igor Cavalera on drums.
Demigod is the seventh studio album by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. The album was recorded during May and July in 2004 at the Hendrix Studios and was released on October 11, 2004. Daniel Bergstrand mixed the record at the Dug out Studios in Uppsala, Sweden during July and August in 2004. The record was then mastered at the Cutting Room in Stockholm, Sweden in August, 2004. The track ""XUL"" included a guest guitar solo by Karl Sanders of Nile. The track ""Before the Æons Came"" is an adaptation of a poem by British poet Algernon Charles Swinburne.
Follow the Reaper is the third studio album by Finnish melodic death metal band Children of Bodom, released in Finland in October 2000 by Spinefarm Records and in February 2001 internationally by Nuclear Blast Records. The album is the first to use a power metal-influenced sound in addition to the black metal and symphonic metal elements from previous albums—present mainly in the keyboards, vocals, and fast tempos. Many songs on the album became live setlist favorites, such as ""Everytime I Die"", ""Hate Me!"", and the title track. The song ""Mask of Sanity"" is a remake of the song ""Talking of the Trees"" from their early demo Shining (released as IneartheD). Follow the Reaper was recorded and mixed at Peter Tägtgren's Abyss studio in Sweden, instead of the Finnish Astia-studio from Anssi Kippo, in which they had recorded all of their previous releases, including the demos from IneartheD. On this album, Children of Bodom used D standard tuning (D,G,C,F,A,D), which was also used on Hatebreeder. The album features sampled quotes from the 1990 film The Exorcist III. A deluxe edition featuring two bonus tracks was released in 2006.
Khronos is the sixth full-length album by Greek extreme metal band Rotting Christ. Following Sleep of the Angels, this record continues to show the band's experimentation with doom and gothic metal musical elements, but also a return to their more extreme earlier years as well. Some traces of industrial music can also be heard, particularly in the band's cover of Current 93's ""Lucifer Over London"", but also on other tracks as ""Glory of Sadness"". It was produced by Peter Tägtgren's (Hypocrisy) Abyss Studios, whose previous credits also include releases by Dimmu Borgir and Immortal.
Blood-Rooted is an album by Sepultura, released on June 3, 1997. It was a collection of unreleased tracks, b-sides, remixes, and live recordings. It was also the last officially recognised Sepultura album featuring original singer Max Cavalera, who left in December 1996 amid a dispute regarding the band's management. Cavalera was replaced by American singer Derrick Green in 1997. Tracks 1-6 and 11 are cover songs.
Murder is the fifth full length album by the Norwegian black metal band Gehenna.
Out of the Dark... Into the Light is the second EP by German thrash metal band Kreator, released in 1988. The live tracks were recorded at Dynamo Club, Eindhoven, Netherlands, in 1988. Late 1990s reissues of the Terrible Certainty album feature this EP as bonus material. The early American version came in a 12"" cardboard box.
Dawn of the Black Hearts is a bootleg live album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. It is infamous for bearing a photograph of Mayhem's singer, Dead (Per Yngve Ohlin), after his suicide in April 1991. The photograph was taken by Mayhem's guitarist, Euronymous (Øystein Aarseth), when he discovered the body. The album was released in 1995 on vinyl in an edition of 300 copies by Warmaster Records by Mauricio ""Bull Metal"" Montoya, owner of Warmaster Records Colombia, original drummer of the death metal band Massacre and a pen pal of Euronymous. This original version contains eight songs from a concert in Sarpsborg on February 28, 1990. The label bears the band's logo and the album title in golden ink. The album has been reissued many times by various independent record labels, with many including four extra songs, recorded at a concert in Ski, Norway, during 1986, with Messiah on vocals. Most of the re-releases erroneously claim that the additional songs come from a Lillehammer show with Maniac on vocals. Despite being a ""semi-official"" release, the bootleg is commonly listed as one of the band's main albums.
Det som engang var (Norwegian for ""what once was"") is the second studio album by the Norwegian black metal solo project Burzum. It was recorded in April 1992 and released in August 1993 through Burzum's own label, Cymophane.
Expurse of Sodomy is an EP released by the German thrash metal band Sodom. Some copies were released as a picture disc.
Filosofem (Norwegian for ""philosopheme"") is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal solo project Burzum. It was recorded in March 1993 and was the last recording before Varg Vikernes' imprisonment (16 May 1994); the album was not released until January 1996, however.
Prometheus: The Discipline of Fire & Demise is the fourth and final studio album by Norwegian black metal band Emperor. It was released on 21 October 2001, through Candlelight Records. Prometheus: The Discipline of Fire & Demise differs from Emperor's previous recordings with a focus on a more progressive style. The album was nominated for a Norwegian Grammy Award for Best Metal album in 2001.
Stormblåst MMV (sometimes referred to as Stormblåst 2005 Version or Stormblåst Re Recorded) is the seventh album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir, released on November 11, 2005 by Nuclear Blast. It is a re-recorded version of the band's 1996 album Stormblåst. The album was re-recorded entirely by Silenoz and Shagrath with guest appearances from Hellhammer and Mustis. The album also has two new studio tracks, ""Sorgens Kammer – Del II"" and ""Avmaktslave"". The album included a bonus DVD with five live songs performed at Ozzfest 2004 and the American version included a free cloth patch. Before the music begins in ""Alt Lys Er Svunnet Hen"", the demonic phrase spoken by the possessed girl in the 2005 film Constantine can be heard.
Pure Holocaust is the second album by Norwegian black metal band Immortal. It was released on November 1, 1993, on Osmose Productions. It is generally faster sounding than its predecessor Diabolical Fullmoon Mysticism. The lyrics focus mainly on ice, snow, and fantasy landscapes. The first album to feature Abbath on drums. The album was released as a standard CD, as a limited LP on Osmose Productions (which was reissued in 2005), and as a limited edition picture disc in 1998.
Toxic Waste is a Split EP by American thrash metal bands Municipal Waste and Toxic Holocaust released under Tankcrimes Records. Tracks 1 & 2 are by Municipal Waste. Tracks 3 & 4 are by Toxic Holocaust.
The following is the discography of Sepultura, a Brazilian heavy metal band. Sepultura was formed in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, in 1984 by brothers Max and Igor Cavalera. After several lineup changes, Paulo Jr. and Jairo Guedz became permanent members for the band's first studio album Morbid Visions, released in 1986 through Cogumelo Records. Guitarist Jairo Guedz left Sepultura following the band's first tour and was replaced by Andreas Kisser. With the new formation, Sepultura recorded Schizophrenia in 1987. Beneath the Remains, the first album from the band's contract with Roadrunner Records, was released in 1989, followed by Arise in 1991 and Chaos A.D. in 1993. Sepultura's best-selling album Roots, was released in 1996 and debuted at number 27 on the Billboard 200. In 1996, vocalist Max Cavalera left the band and formed Soulfly. The other members announced that they would continue under the Sepultura name and were searching for a replacement. Derrick Green was chosen to replace Cavalera, and with the new vocalist the band released Against in 1998. Nation was released in 2001, the band's last studio album with Roadrunner Records. Sepultura re-signed with German label SPV and released Roorback. Dante XXI was released in 2006 as a concept album inspired by the literary classic Divine Comedy by Dante Alighieri. Igor Cavalera left the band in 2006 and was replaced by Jean Dolabella. In 2009 Sepultura released A-Lex, a concept album about A Clockwork Orange, followed by 2011's Kairos. An 20 years old Eloy Casagrande replaces to Dollabella in 2011. The band's most recent studio album is The Mediator Between Head and Hands Must Be the Heart, release in October 2013, the first album featuring new drummer Casagrande.
Sons of Northern Darkness is the seventh album by the Norwegian black metal band Immortal. Musically, it continues the blackened thrash metal style heard on the two previous releases At the Heart of Winter and Damned in Black. This was the band's first release on Nuclear Blast Records and the last album to feature Iscariah on bass. The album was released in multiple formats, including a standard CD, a limited edition four-panel digipak, a limited edition metal box, a ""Deluxe Edition"" digipak with bonus DVD, a picture disc, a gatefold double LP, and a quadruple 10"" leather box. The limited edition metal box was only available via Nuclear Blast mailorder and was sold out before it was actually released. The song ""In My Kingdom Cold"" references the H.P. Lovecraft story At the Mountains of Madness.
Woods 4: The Green Album is the third full-length album and fourth studio release by Ontario blackened doom metal band Woods of Ypres. It is the band's only release to feature guitarist Bryan Belleau, the only full album to feature Evan & Shane Madden on bass and drums, and the only full length Woods of Ypres release to not feature frontman David Gold on drums. It is the band's only full-length album to be released on Gold's final independent label Practical Art Records, and its March 2011 reissue through Earache Records marked their debut on that label as well. A music video (the band's last) was released for the song ""I Was Buried In Mount Pleasant Cemetery"". A limited run of 1,000 copies of Woods IV also included a bonus album: Slaughter of the Seoul, the final album by South Korean death metal band Necramyth, who Gold drummed for at the time.
Celestite is the fifth full-length studio album by American black metal band Wolves in the Throne Room. It was released through their own label Artemisia Records on July 8, 2014. Every song on the album is instrumental, and unlike other releases by the band, it differs from their usual black metal style focusing instead on ambient and drone styles.
Melana Chasmata is the second full-length album by Swiss extreme metal band Triptykon, released through Prowling Death Records/Century Media Records on 14 April 2014 in Europe and on 15 April 2014 in North America. The album was officially announced on 22 October 2013 by the band's frontman, Thomas Gabriel Fischer (a.k.a. ""Tom Warrior""), on his official blog. The title is in Greek (Μελανά Χάσματα) and, according to Fischer, it can be roughly translated as ""black, deep depressions/valleys"" — or, in a more literal translation, ""chasms as [black as] ink"". The album's artwork was provided by famous Surrealist painter H. R. Giger. It is the third time in his career he has collaborated with Thomas Fischer; Giger also provided artwork for Fischer's former band Celtic Frost's first full-length, To Mega Therion, in 1985, and to Triptykon's debut Eparistera Daimones in 2010. It was Giger's last album cover before his death, just one week before the album's release. A music video for the track ""Aurorae"" was released on 7 August 2014. Another video, to ""Tree of Suffocating Souls"", was released on 17 November 2014. Song In The Sleep of Death is referring to Emily Brontë as about a lost love.
The Ways of Yore is the eleventh studio album by Norwegian musical project Burzum, released on 2 June 2014 by project leader Varg Vikernes' label Byelobog Productions. The album retains the ambient and medieval music sound Vikernes started with Burzum's previous album, Sôl austan, Mâni vestan, albeit introducing vocals. The album's cover was taken from ""Merlin and Vivien"", an engraving by famous French artist Gustave Doré for Alfred Tennyson's poem Idylls of the King.
Terrestrials is a collaborative studio album by American drone metal band Sunn O))) and Norwegian experimental music group Ulver. Produced by Stephen O'Malley and Kristoffer Rygg, it was released on February 3, 2014, via Southern Lord Records. It has been described as ""three live improvisation pieces"". On December 10, 2013, a sample from the closing track, ""Eternal Return"", was released for streaming. It was also streamed on Pitchfork Advance on the day it was released until February 10, 2014.
In War and Pieces is the thirteenth album by the German thrash metal band Sodom. It was released on November 19, 2010 in Germany, November 22, 2010 in Europe and January 11, 2011 in the United States. The album was released in four formats: 
*  Limited edition digipak with bonus live CD including 10 tracks (Wacken, 25th anniversary show 2007) 
*  Double gatefold LP in blood red vinyl with 1 bonus track (""Murder One"") 
*  Standard version 
*  Download In War and Pieces sold over 700 copies in the United States in its first week.
Tristesse Hivernale is a demo by black metal Neige-led band Alcest, released in 2001 on Drakkar Productions. Unlike the following albums, this style of this demo is traditional black metal with a raw sound and harsh vocals. The music was recorded with Argoth (bass guitar) and Aegnor/Famine (lead guitar), both from Peste Noire, a band that Neige was also involved with as a session drummer at the time (session/live rhythm guitarist later). Famine wrote the main riff of the song ""La Forêt de Cristal"". Tristesse Hivernale was later re-released by Northern Silence Productions in August 2007 as a split release with another French black metal band, Angmar.
Childhood's End (subtitled Lost & Found from the Age of Aquarius) is the ninth studio album by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced by Ulver, the album was recorded live in Crystal Canyon Studios, Oslo, over two sessions, in autumn 2008 and summer 2011, and issued in May, 2012 on Jester Records under exclusive license to Kscope. The album is a collection of covers of ""60s psychedelic chestnuts,” a reinterpretation of mostly obscure 1960s psychedelia, intended by Ulver as a reflection on lost innocence. In a Kscope video interview, Kristoffer Rygg commented, “I grew up with parents who were still listening to music from the time, so it informed my childhood, and it has become an ever increasing geeky sort of fetish since then.“ Adding, “My feeling is that most people's knowledge sort of limits itself to The Doors. The Doors were cool, but there was so much else going on… in the underground, records that got lost and didn't get as much recognition as they deserved in my opinion. We wish to be ambassadors for things that we love and we sort of hope that we can open some gates with the record.” The album includes versions of songs by The Pretty Things, The Byrds, Bonniwell's Music Machine, We the People, Jefferson Airplane, Gandalf, The Electric Prunes, The 13th Floor Elevators, The Troggs, The Left Banke, The Beau Brummels, Common People, Music Emporium, Curt Boettcher, The Fleur de Lys, and The United States of America. The cover features a photograph by Hoang Van Danh of Phan Thi Kim Phuc fleeing a napalm attack by the South Vietnamese Air Force in 1972. A music video for ""Magic Hollow"", directed by Justin Oakey, was released in April 2012.
Animatronic is the third studio album by the Norwegian industrial metal band, The Kovenant, and was released in 1999 through Nuclear Blast.
In the Shadows is the third full-length album by Mercyful Fate. It is also the first offering of the band since their reunion in 1992. It was released in 1993 on Metal Blade Records. Unlike previous Mercyful Fate albums, which were entirely centered around lyrical themes of Satanism and the Occult, the lyrics on this album are rather focused on more conceptual horror-themes, akin to King Diamond's work with his eponymous band. The band would not return to a primarily occult/Satanic lyrical approach until the band's final album, 9, released in 1999. Some editions of In the Shadows contain a bonus track, ""Return of the Vampire... 1993"", that is a re-recording of the song ""Return of the Vampire"", present in the homonymous 1992 compilation album, featuring Lars Ulrich of Metallica on drums. The album cover was painted by Torbjorn Jorgensen / Studio Dzyan.
Messe I.X-VI.X is the tenth studio album by the Norwegian experimental collective Ulver and the Tromsø Chamber Orchestra with additional aid from composer Martin Romberg. Written and produced by Ulver, released on October 8, 2013, via Jester Records and Kscope. The album has been described as a ""peace mass for Lebanon"". On September 17, 2013, a trailer was released, and on October 4, 2013 the track ""Shri Schneider"", was released for streaming via Pitchfork Media.
Semper Fidelis (Latin for ""forever faithful"") is the fifth full-length release of the black metal band Nargaroth. It marks Wagner's departure from the Black Metal scene and from his ""Kanwulf"" persona, and the embrace of ""Ash"", which has been his nickname since childhood.
Release from Agony is the third full-length album by German thrash metal band Destruction, released in 1987. It was the first Destruction full-length album to feature four members.
A Haunting Curse is Goatwhore's third full-length studio album. A live performance music video was filmed for ""Forever Consumed Oblivion"" which has seen airplay on MTV2's Headbangers Ball. Another music video was filmed for ""Alchemy of the Black Sun Cult"".
Cracked Brain is the fourth full-length studio album by German thrash metal band Destruction, released in 1990. It is the first album of their official discography not to feature Schmier on vocals. André Grieder of Poltergeist provided the vocals, his sole appearance in a Destruction album. Also featured is a cover of The Knack song My Sharona.
Dawn of Iron Blades is a full-length album by the Polish black metal band Graveland. Dawn of Iron Blades was also released as A5-digibook (limited to 1500) and gatefold 2xLP. Some of the lyrics were written by Garhard III from the band Woodtemple.
Death's Design is Blakkheim's fourth and final album, released under the moniker of Diabolical Masquerade and his most experimental. The album is broken up into 20 movements, the shortest of which is just 6 seconds long. Also the album seems to be without genre, changing directions many times. According to the last update of Blakkheim's website it was to be an original motion picture soundtrack to a movie that was never made but that turned out to be a prank on everyone by Blakkheim. The European version features 61 tracks while the US release has 36, both have a similar length.
Eternal Devastation is the second full-length album by German thrash metal band Destruction. It was released in 1986. It showed the band had moved away from their previous black metal-influenced style of material evident on the Sentence of Death EP and Infernal Overkill albums, and were headed in the direction of a more contemporary thrash metal style.
Fire Burns in Our Hearts is an album released by the black metal band Clandestine Blaze in 1999. The song ""Icons of Torture"" is often credited as a collaboration by Darkthrone and Burzum on file-sharing networks.
Incipit Satan is the fifth full-length album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. It was released on 7 February 2000 by Nuclear Blast, and reissued in 2006 by Back on Black Records. Incipit Satan was the first album with King ov Hell as bassist, the last album to feature Tormentor on guitar and the only one with Sjt. Erichsen on drums. The band members dedicated the album to their deceased friend and former bandmate Erik Brødreskift (a.k.a. ""Grim"").
Infernal Overkill is the first full-length album by German thrash metal band Destruction. It was released in 1985.
Live Legacy is a live album by the Swedish black metal band Dissection. It was released in 2003 by Nuclear Blast. It was recorded during a show at the Wacken Open Air festival, Germany, 8 August 1997. It was first released as a bootleg called Frozen in Wacken, which featured the art of romantic painter Antoine Wiertz on the cover. The boot leg also includes the song ""Night's Blood"" that was omitted from the official release due to errors in the recording. The Limited Boxset (1000 pieces) also contains the ""Gods Of Darkness - Live"" DVD and CD taken from the Dimmu Borgir / Dissection video ""Live &Plugged Vol. 2"" as well as a ""Live Legacy"" poster flag.
Lugburz is the debut full-length album by the Austrian black metal band Summoning. This album consists mostly of demo songs which were rearranged. Lugburz means ""Dark Tower"" in Black Speech and is commonly applied to the tower of Barad-dûr in J. R. R. Tolkien's The Lord of the Rings. Unlike every following Summoning album which are slower and more atmospheric with heavier keyboards, Lugburz's sound is overall faster, and sounds more similar to the band Abigor. This is the last work with Alexander ""Trifixion"" Trondl on drums.
Lyckantropen Themes (subtitled Original Soundtrack For The Short Film By Steve Ericsson) is an original soundtrack album by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Produced by Ulver on mobile equipment in Oslo, Norway and Stockholm, Sweden in May 2002 for the Swedish short film Lyckantropen, the album was issued in November 2002 via Jester Records. Lyckantropen Themes is Ulver's first foray into film soundtrack music, although musically it has continuity with their previously released EPs, Silence Teaches You How to Sing and Silencing the Singing. The soundtrack has been described as “ambiguous moods and lurking-in-the-shadows electronic ambiances, setting the alternately suspenseful and melancholy mood of the soundtrack.” The soundtrack was nominated for a Spellemannprisen in 2002; an award presented to Norwegian musicians, in the 'Open Class' category. The film’s DVD release features an interview with Kristoffer Rygg and Jørn H. Sværen, entitled Shape Shifting - The 1st Decade of Ulver.
Maha Kali is an EP by the Swedish extreme metal band Dissection. It was the first release after the rebirth of Dissection, shortly after Jon Nödtveidt was released from prison. It represents the band's change from a melodic black metal sound to a more Gothenburg-based sound of melodic death metal. The song ""Maha Kali"" also appears on the live DVD Rebirth of Dissection, and was re-recorded and included on Dissection's last full-length album, Reinkaos; ""Unhallowed (Rebirth Version)"" is a re-recording from Storm of the Light's Bane. Maha Kali entered the Swedish charts at number 50.
Minas Morgul is the second full-length album by the Austrian black metal band Summoning. The band and many of their fans consider this album to be their debut album as it developed the ""Summoning-sound"" and brought the band to a larger audience.
Night of the Unholy Flames is an album released by Clandestine Blaze in 2000, on the label Northern Heritage.
Nightshade Forests is the first EP by the Austrian black metal band Summoning. It consists of four songs left over from the Dol Guldur sessions in 1996. It was released on 3 June 1997, through Napalm Records.
Ordo ad Chao is the fourth full-length album by the Norwegian black metal band Mayhem. ""Ordo ad chao"" is incorrect Latin (correct: ""ordo ab chao"") for ""order to chaos"" – a reversal of the Latin expression ""ordo ab chao"" (""order from chaos"") often cited as the motto used in Freemasonry. The album received the Spellemann award for best metal album on 2 February 2008. It is the first Mayhem album with the vocalist Attila Csihar since the 1994 album De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas and the last with Blasphemer before he announced his departure from the band in 2008. The drummer, Jan Axel Blomberg (Hellhammer), said that the drum tracks were not equalized and only the bass drums were triggered. He ended saying ""the production sounds necro as fuck, but that's the way we wanted it – this time. It represents Mayhem today."" Indeed, the sound of the album is much rawer than that of any official Mayhem studio release since Deathcrush, with a very bass-heavy mix. Despite that, the album continues the somewhat unorthodox songwriting approach showcased on the band's last two releases, with ""Illuminate Eliminate"" being the band's second longest song. The album includes some death grunts and clean vocals; however, Grand Declaration of War has cleaner vocals. It also has the distinction of being the first Mayhem album with lyrics written by Attila Csihar (the lyrics on De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas having been penned by Dead). Consequently, there is a thematic shift from the band's earlier lyrics, which focused mostly on morbid and Satanic ideas, and the lyrics here allude to psychic powers, the Annunaki, and the creation of the human race as a workforce for alien powers. The album was released on 23 April 2007. It charted at #12 in Norway, making it the band's highest charting album yet. There is a version of the album supplied in a metal case that is limited to a production of 3,000.
Silence Teaches You How to Sing is an EP by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Recorded and mixed in February 2001, the EP was issued by Jester Records in September 2001, limited to 2000 copies. Loosely recorded during the sessions for the Perdition City, together with Silencing the Singing, the EP is a subtle counterpart to the more dramatic full-length, issued in March 2000. The style is more experimental/atmospheric and less beat-oriented; rather mood pieces that revolve around the Perdition City theme. Due to the experimental nature of the music, both Silence EP’s were limited to two thousand, and three thousand copies. However, both Silence Teaches You How to Sing and Silencing the Singing EP’s were re-released as one disc, issued through American independent label Black Apple Records, under the title Teachings in Silence, in November 2002. Portions of the EP appeared in the 2012 supernatural horror film Sinister.
Silencing The Singing is an EP by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. Recorded and mixed in February 2001, the EP was issued by Jester Records in December 2001, limited to 3000 copies. Loosely recorded during the sessions for the Perdition City, together with Silence Teaches You How to Sing, the EP is a subtle counterpart to the more dramatic full-length, issued in March 2000. The style is more experimental/atmospheric and less beat-oriented; rather mood pieces that revolve around the Perdition City theme. Due to the experimental nature of the music, both Silence EP’s were limited to two thousand, and three thousand copies. However, both Silence Teaches You How to Sing and Silencing the Singing EP’s were re-released as one disc, issued through American independent label Black Apple Records, under the title Teachings in Silence, in November 2002.
Sombre Romantic is the debut studio album from Australian gothic metal band Virgin Black. The album was originally released in a very limited pressing within Australia only by Crestfallen Records. It was then released on 12 February 2001 on The End Records in the United States and in Europe by German label Massacre Records. A 2002 re-pressing of this album by The End also included the ""Trance"" EP as a bonus disk.
Svidd neger (subtitled Original Motion Picture Soundtrack ) is an original soundtrack album by Norwegian experimental collective Ulver. The soundtrack was commissioned by Filmfalken AS. from Ambassaden, Oslo, and Norsk Film, Bærum, Norway, recorded between September 2002 and April 2003. The album was issued by Jester Records on September 15, 2003. The music is more elaborate than the abstract minimalism of Lyckantropen Themes. Stated on the sleeve: “Music for and Inspired by Svidd neger as perceived by Ulver. What you hear is not strictly what you see. All for the director in you.” Svidd neger is Ulver’s first score for a full-length feature film, the controversial Norwegian film Svidd Neger. Here the songs are incredibly lush and dense, generally laidback but sinister, at times more musical and orchestral, while other elements are more minimal and atmospheric – but always exceptional.
Teachings in Silence is a compilation album by Norwegian collective Ulver. Issued through independent label Black Apple Records in November 2002, it combines Silence Teaches You How to Sing and Silencing the Singing, originally issued in September and December 2001, respectively. Due to the experimental nature of the music, both Silence EP’s were limited to two thousand, and three thousand copies. The two EP’s combined will be released as a double LP in 2014 by Ampullae Audio. This release will be limited to 500. This release was nominated for a Spellemannprisen in 2003; an award presented to Norwegian musicians, in the 'Electronic' category. In February 2014, in an interview with Heathen Harvest, Kristoffer Rygg announced that both Silence Teaches You How to Sing and Silencing the Singing were going to be released on high-quality double vinyl through Jaime Gomez Arellano’s new audiophile label Ampullae Audio. Adding “We haven’t listen to that stuff for years and I enjoyed that process a lot — remastering it and listening to it again, in a quite involved way. I’m satisfied with those experiments, definitely. It’s weird to think it’s over ten years since we made those EPs. They sound very modern to me.” Arellano continues, “The Silence EP's were two experiments and/or “studies in sound” made by Ulver (Kristoffer Rygg & Tore Ylvisaker) in 2001. They were later released as one CD under the name Teachings In Silence. The music from these sessions were made up by the boys just fooling around in their studio with an Akai S3000 sampler, synth(s), paper and scissors (literally), glitches, clicks and odd sounds - they even recorded their PC's hard drive overheating... I have long loved these weird - and creepy - gems from Ulver's by now very large treasure chest of first class music. In fact excerpts from Silence Teaches You How to Sing were recently used to great effect in the hit horror movie Sinister. No wonder really. It's perfect dark, dreamy and trippy stuff. So when Steve and I started Ampullae, I asked Kris if he would be up for me re-mastering and re-releasing these high-fidelity, carefully cut and considered, heavy vinyls. Thankfully he agreed. We are very pleased with the result and we hope this will be the first in an eclectic mix of personal choice favourites of never before released (audiophile) vinyl curiosa and curation from us...”
The Phantom Lodge is the second studio album by the Swedish black metal Diabolical Masquerade. Dan Swanö played a much smaller part on this album than previously, doing heavy metal vocals on ""Hater"" only and assisting Blakkheim in producing. However, there were a few guest appearances.
Where Dead Angels Lie is an EP by the Swedish black metal band Dissection. It was first released as a shaped CD in the form of the Dissection cross in 1996 by Nuclear Blast Records. The EP was later included as part of a bonus CD on the 2006 re-release of Storm of the Light's Bane, albeit with a re-arranged track listing.
Instinct: Decay is the third full-length album by Nachtmystium. It was rated the 4th best album of the year by Decibel Magazine. The album was released on CD by Battle Kommand Records and on Vinyl by Profound Lore Records and Autopsy Kitchen Records. According to Blake Judd, the album is a metaphor for his views on society's decline. In an interview with DEAF SPARROW Zine, Judd stated the album's themes revolve around his idea humans have a natural inclination to harm themselves through ""personal greed, lust, and power"". Judd considers these vices to be the cause of society's ills, including war, indifference, and one's own self-destruction. The album's cover art was designed by Rebecca Clegg.
Mad Grandiose Bloodfiends is  Ancient's third full-length release.The album was recorded, mixed and mastered in Cue Recording Studios, Falls Church, Virginiaduring September 1997. This album hearkens a rather drastic change of musical focus for the group, into a more melodic/gothic-oriented approach with an influx of clean/female singing, slower tempos and majestic stringed instruments, though much of the group's original black metal roots are still present. Song/lyrical topics also moved in a new direction, particularly with topics about vampires/vampirism. This has led to a strong backlash from fans and critics.
Satanic Blood Angel is the first compilation album by American black metal band Von. It features the Satanic Blood demo released in 1992, the unreleased Blood Angel demo and a live recording of a gig played in their home city, San Francisco, California. The compilation was released in 2003 by Nuclear War Now! Productions as a double CD and by From Beyond Productions as a single CD. Besides the Satanic, Blood Angel and Satanic Blood demos, Satanic Blood Angel is the only current licensed re-release of the Von demos compiled for sale, excluding Satanic.
Souvenirs d'un autre monde ([suvəniʁ dœ̃ otʁə mɔ̃də], English: ""Memories from another world"") is the first full-length album by French band Alcest, released in August 2007. The title refers to the meaning behind the music of Alcest, as its leader and songwriter, Neige, sees it as a journey through his memories of a distant world he has been in contact with. It is the only album with Neige as the sole member of Alcest. Although it is representative of future works, the album differs greatly from Alcest's first release Le Secret, distancing itself further from Alcest's original, darker sound, and going more into post-metal and shoegaze-like direction. It is the last release in which Neige plays all instruments, as he was joined by drummer Winterhalter on subsequent releases.
The Cainian Chronicle is Ancient’s second full length release. On another note, the album’s length is 66 minutes and six seconds long. The concept of the first part of the record (tracks 1-4) is a retelling of the fall of Cain, based not on the traditional Biblical tale, rather on the supplement The Book of Nod of the Vampire: the Masquerade roleplaying game. the first son of Adam and Eve and first murderer. It chronicles his casting out, his relations with the demon angel Lilith and the leading to the procreation of their children, the Disciplines of Cain. The three part opus corresponds to three parts of The Book of Nod. ""At the Infernal Portal"" contains lines from Dante’s Divine Comedy, and the rest of the album is based on traditional Paganism.
The Fighting Man is the second studio album by the English pagan metal band Forefather. It was recorded and mixed at The Croft, Surrey and released in 2000 on Angelisc Enterprises. In 2004 Karmageddon Media reissued the album with two bonus tracks.
The Final Sign of Evil is the twelfth album by German thrash metal band Sodom, released in 2007. It was the first album to include the original Sodom line-up since 1985. The album includes re-recorded versions of tracks from In the Sign of Evil as well as seven songs originally written for In the Sign of Evil, but not recorded due to the label's inability to pay for studio time. As a result, In the Sign of Evil was released as an EP rather than a full-length LP.
Zerfall is the first studio album by the German dark metal band Eisregen, released through Last Episode in 1998.
At the Arena ov Aion – Live Apostasy is the first live album by the Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released on 31 October 2008 through Regain Records. The album was recorded live at La Loco in Paris, France on 17 February 2008 during the European Apostasy tour. The record was then mixed and edited in the Antfarm Studio, Denmark in June 2008. Additional editing took place in the Soundsgreat Studio in Poland during April and May 2008. The record was then mastered in the Cutting Room Studios, Stockholm in July 2008. The live album was also released as a digibook including 17 tracks. A limited metalbox edition (including a patch, a guitar pick and 2 bonus songs) was announced but never came to fruition due to Regain Records financial problems.
Ezkaton is the sixth EP by Polish extreme metal band Behemoth. It was released in North America through Metal Blade Records on November 11, 2008, and in Europe through Regain Records on November 20, 2008. The EP features seven tracks, including one new song titled Qadosh, a live recording and new studio version to Chant for Ezkaton 2000 e.v., live versions of From the Pagan Vastlands and Decade ov Therion, along with covers of Master's Hammer's Jáma pekel(lead vocal BigBoss-Root) and Ramones' I'm Not Jesus. The first four tracks were recorded during the The Apostasy studio sessions at the Radio Gdańsk Studios from November 2006 till March 2007. The other three live tracks were recorded in Leeuwarden, The Netherlands in October 2007 the during the European Apostasy tour. Ezkaton has also been released as a limited edition box set, that includes four 7-inch picture discs. The set also comes with a bonus track, Devilock (Misfits cover) on the third picture disc. Each picture disc has one track on each side. In 2014, the EP (including the Devilock bonus track and several live tracks) was included in a re-release of The Apostasy by Peaceville Records. The limited edition box set also has two manufacturing mistakes: the CD title for track 3 ""Jamal Pekel"" is written as ""Jamal Piekiel"". And the back of the box misses the ""live"" mention for ""Decade Ov Therion"".
Knochenkult is the seventh studio album by the German dark metal band Eisregen, released as Jewelcase, Digipak with the Bonustrack `Blut ist Leben´ and a boxset with a shirt, the digipak which is limited to 1000 copies through Massacre Records in 2008.
Mescalyne is the first EP by the black metal band Spektr. It was released in 2007 on Debemur Morti Productions.
The Historical Plague is a Collectors Vinyl Boxed Set by the black metal band Old Man's Child, limited to 2000 copies. It was released on December 8, 2003 by Century Media Records. It contained remastered Gatefold Vinyl LP versions of the five Studio Albums that Old Man's Child had released up to 2003: Born of the Flickering (1996), The Pagan Prosperity (1997), Ill-Natured Spiritual Invasion (1998), Revelation 666 - The Curse of Damnation (2000) and In Defiance of Existence (2003).
The Invaluable Darkness is a live DVD by symphonic black metal band Dimmu Borgir. It was released on October 14, 2008. It is also the eighth song, not counting bonus tracks, on In Sorte Diaboli, their eighth studio album.
VIII – The Time Unchained is the eighth full-length album by the Finnish melodic black metal band Catamenia. It was released on October 24, 2008, through Massacre Records. The first album not to feature keyboards in any song.
War Vol. 1 is an album split between the Finnish symphonic black metal band ...and Oceans and the Norwegian death/black metal band Bloodthorn. The two bands recorded two completely new songs and covered each other's work alongside that of a third band, this time GGFH.
Demonized is the fifth album by the Greek black metal band Astarte. Just like its predecessor Sirens, Demonized was recorded in hometown Athens, Greece and mixed at the renowned TicoTico Studio’s in Finland. The band also managed to invite some very renowned guest-musicians once again to play on their album.
Abrahadabra is the ninth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dimmu Borgir, released in 2010. The first single from the album, ""Gateways"", was released on August 20 in Europe and August 24 in North America. On September 14, a video for ""Gateways"" was released featuring Djerv front-woman, Agnete Kjølsrud. On September 17, the song ""Born Treacherous"" was released on Dimmu Borgir's official Myspace for streaming. On September 24, the band announced they would stream Abrahadabra in its entirety, until 7 p.m. EST that evening. This would mark the first official release of all the tracks on the album. The album features bassist Snowy Shaw and the first to feature drummer Daray.
Monoliths & Dimensions is the sixth studio album by the avant-garde drone doom band Sunn O))). The album was created and recorded over a period of two years and features the collaborations of composer Eyvind Kang, Australian guitar player Oren Ambarchi, Hungarian vocalist Attila Csihar, Dylan Carlson from the drone band Earth, and trombonists Julian Priester and Stuart Dempster. Also present is an upright bass trio; French and English horns; harp and flute duo; piano, brass, reed, and string ensembles; and a Viennese woman's choir led by Persian vocalist Jessika Kenney. However, the band said, ""The album is not Sunn O))) with strings or metal-meets-orchestra material."" The band took an approach concentrating on more of allusion toward the timbre of feedback and the instruments involved, so the piece is really illusory, beautiful and not entirely linear, stating, ""[The end product is] the most musical piece we’ve done, and also the heaviest, [most] powerful, and most abstract set of chords we’ve laid to tape."" When speaking at the launch of Monoliths & Dimensions, Stephen O'Malley told Alex Templeton-Ward that the album was ""like a prism... our music is the white light going in, a lot of the colour comes out the other side through the amazing arrangements and personalities of the guest performers and core collaborators… I think the main topic of this album is elaboration, expansion and prismatic detail. The source of that detail is inherent in the sounds of the guitars and the notes of those arrangements."" The final song, titled ""Alice"", is a dedication to the late Alice Coltrane.
""Nedgång"" (Descent) is the fourth track off the Finnish folk metal band Finntroll's fifth full-length album, Ur jordens djup. A music video for the song was released in April, 2007, the month following the release of the album. The lyrics of the song were written by the band's original vocalist, Jan ""Katla"" Jämsen—who was forced to retire in 2003 due to a tumor in his vocal cords—and make up the third portion of the album's narrative about the death and rebirth of the troll kingshaman, Rivfader (a character conceived by Jämsen in the early days of Finntroll after whom their first demo, ""Rivfader"", was named and who has been heavily mentioned in several of their later albums, including Midnattens widunder, Nattfödd, and Jaktens tid).
Orcustus is the debut full-length album of the Norwegian black metal band Orcustus. It was released by Southern Lord in March 2009.
Quantos Possunt ad Satanitatem Trahunt (Latin for ""They draw as many as they can toward Satanism"") is the eighth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth. It was released on 21 October 2009 by Regain Records. This album marked the return of Pest on vocals, as well as the debut of Tomas Asklund (ex-Infernal/Dissection/Dark Funeral) on drums and Bøddel (the pseudonym of Frank Watkins of Obituary) on bass. Infernus, the founding member and guitarist of Gorgoroth, began work on this album in October 2006, and was first reported to be writing it when he was released on parole from prison in March 2007. However, the latter stages of the songwriting and much of the recording process were overshadowed by the Gorgoroth name dispute which began in October 2007. Within two weeks of the beginning of the dispute, the album title was revealed to the public. Infernus cited the ecclesiastical writer Adam of Bremen as the inspiration for the album's title, parodying his maxim Quantos Possunt ad Christianitatem Trahunt.
Sanojesi Äärelle is the seventh studio album by the Finnish black metal band Horna. It was published by Debemur Morti Productions in the 29th of September 2008. The Digi-CD-version was released via Moribund Records. while the vinyl version was handled through Deviant Records by being limited to 666 copies - 150 of them in coloured vinyl, that meant first ones in green vinyl, second ones of them in clear vinyl. Each record comes in separate single cover sleeve, with lyric sheet and a flyer. A tape version was publicized and bounded to 15 copies. It's the last Horna album to feature Corvus on vocals.
Nifelvind (English: Underworld's Winds) is the fifth full-length album by the Finnish folk metal band Finntroll, released on February 17, 2010 through Century Media. This album reached the highest chart result in Finland by reaching position #8. It also entered the German album charts on #31, as well as the charts in Switzerland (#41) and Austria (#61).
Wolves in the Throne Room is a self-titled demo album released independently in 2004. Most rips circulating the Internet have an incorrect track listing.
Alles Tot is a two-song EP released by Bethlehem in 2004. The 7"" EP is limited to 500 copies, all in gatefold sleeve and white vinyl. There is also a special edition limited to 47 (hand-numbered) copies. It comes with a limited T-shirt, razorblade and packed in special wire. Both songs were recorded in 1996. They were previously available in a Red Stream compilation from 1999 called To Live Is Ever to Be in Danger. ""Wo Adlers wagen"" is a cover of Iron Maiden's song ""Where Eagles Dare"" and can also be heard in the background of the last track from the EP Reflektionen auf's Sterben. ""Schuld unseres Knöchrigen Faltpferds"" is one of the songs featured in the Gummo soundtrack.
Jordpuls  (""Pulse of the Earth"") is the seventh full-length album by Swedish folk metal band Vintersorg. As with the previous album Solens rötter, the lyrics are all in Swedish. This is the first of a planned four-album concept series based on the elements.
Life Has Ended Here is the second album by Dominion III. It features a more prominent industrial edge and guitar-driven tracks. The style continues to be characterized by hard and aggressive rhythms combined with hopeless and sinister soundscapes.
A Rose for the Apocalypse is Draconian's fourth studio album released June 23, 2011, through Napalm Records. A music video was made for the track ""The Last Hour of Ancient Sunlight"".
Conjure and Command is a fourth studio album released by American thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust, released on July 19, 2011. This is the first release featuring a full band in the studio instead of Joel Grind performing all instruments and vocals himself.
Evil Never Dies is the debut album of thrash metal band Toxic Holocaust.
Mournument is a 2004 album by the Dutch doom metal band Deinonychus. It was recorded for the Italian record label My Kingdom Music and was recorded in Mellrichstadt, Germany.
Psychogrotesque is the fifth studio album by the Italian/Norwegian industrial black metal band Aborym. The album was recorded, mixed and mastered at Fear No One Studios by Emiliano Natali, with the sound consulting of Marc Urselli (founder of The M.E.M.O.R.Y. Lab and sound engineer for artists like John Zorn, Laurie Anderson, Lou Reed, Eric Clapton) at the Eastside Sound Studios in New York.
Obscure Verses for the Multiverse is the sixth full-length album by American black metal band Inquisition. The album was released on October 24, 2013 through Season of Mist. The album was recorded over a period of five days from June 10–15, 2013 at AM Recording Studios in Oxnard, California.
Slow Forever is the fourth album by the black metal band Cobalt. It was released by Profound Lore in 2016. It marks the band's first album with Charlie Fell, who replaced Phil McSorley.
Arctic Thunder is the sixteenth studio album by Norwegian band Darkthrone. It was released on 14 October 2016 via Peaceville Records. The first single from this album was ""Tundra Leech"", which contains some black metal elements as a possible hint that the band will be returning to their original black metal style. The album is named after a Norwegian thrash/heavy metal band, active from 1985 to 1989.
Buk - akustycznie (Beech - acoustic) is the second album by Polish thrash metal band Kat & Roman Kostrzewski, released on 8 September 2014 by the label Mystic Production. It consists of acoustic re-recordings of material previously released by Kat and by Kat & Roman Kostrzewski on their previous album. It peaked at 7th place on the Polish Official Sales Chart.
Formulæ  is the seventh studio album by Czech black metal band Master's Hammer, released on 30 May 2016 through the band's own record label, Jihosound Records, founded in 2013. The album was composed by Franta Štorm in India and South Bohemia in winter 2015–2016, and recorded between January and March 2016 at Biotech Studio in Prague, Czech Republic. Formulæ features the same experimental style of its immediate predecessors, with a mixture of melodic black metal and ambient sounds, in the middle of the Štorm's death growl vocals. On 31 August 2016 the band uploaded a music video to the track ""Maso z kosmu"" on their official YouTube channel; it is the band's first music video since ""Černá svatozář"" and ""Géniové"" (both from 1991). The track ""Votava"" is a tribute to Czech artist Antonín Votava (1943–2009).
The Whole of the Law is the ninth full-length studio album by British extreme metal band Anaal Nathrakh. It will be released on October 28, 2016, on Metal Blade Records.
Monument to Time End is the second album by the black metal band Twilight. It was released in 2010.
Myrkur is the self-titled debut EP by the black metal project Myrkur, by Danish musician and singer-songwriter Amalie Bruun. It was released on 12 September 2014 through Relapse Records. The track ""Nattens Barn"" was released as the first single off the EP, with an accompanying music video.
Măiestrit is a re-recording of the 2002 album Măiastru Sfetnic by Negură Bunget. Released on March 15, 2010, on Lupus Lounge/Prophecy Productions, it contained the last studio recordings of the band's classic line-up (Hupogrammos, Sol Faur, Negru). The album included previously unreleased acoustic material.
Nachthymnen (From the Twilight Kingdom) is the second studio album release by Black metal band Abigor. It was released in 1995.
Satanized (A Journey Through Cosmic Infinity) is the sixth studio album by Austrian black metal band Abigor. It was released in 2001.
Tenements (of the Anointed Flesh) is the fourth and final studio album by British industrial black metal band The Axis of Perdition. It was released on May 2nd, 2011, on Code666 Records. Dan ""Storm"" Mullins could not play drums on this album due to a broken arm so drums were programmed.
Time Is the Sulphur in the Veins of the Saint – An Excursion on Satan's Fragmenting Principle is the eighth studio album by Austrian black metal band Abigor. It was released on January 18, 2010.
Twilight is the debut album by the black metal band Twilight. It was released in 2005.
Tău is the sixth studio album by Negură Bunget, released on February 27, 2015, by Lupus Lounge, a sublabel of Prophecy Productions. When it was first announced in 2013, the album was listed as the first part of a planned ""Transilvanian Trilogy"".
Vîrstele Pamîntului is the fifth studio album by Negură Bunget, released on March 31, 2010, on the Code666 label, the same month as the re-recorded Măiestrit album. It was the first album recorded with a new line-up of musicians, after differences broke the original trio apart and the drummer, Negru, continued on with the band's name.
Winter Thrice is the tenth studio album by the Norwegian band Borknagar.
Gods of Violence is the upcoming fourteenth studio album by the German thrash metal band Kreator, due for release in January 2017. It will be the band's first studio album in five years since Phantom Antichrist (2012), marking the longest gap between two studio albums in their career.
Devotion is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on March 22, 2008 by At War With False Noise.
III is the third studio album by American black metal band Bosse-de-Nage, released on June 26, 2012. It is the band's first album on Profound Lore Records. The album features a cross between black metal and math rock styles, with elements from various genres such as shoegaze, post-hardcore, screamo, and indie rock. The album's sound was also compared to various music acts such as Slint, Mogwai, Godspeed You! Black Emperor, Deathspell Omega and Blut Aus Nord.
All Fours is the fourth studio album by American black metal band Bosse-de-Nage. Released on April 14, 2015 by Profound Lore Records, the album was produced by Jack Shirley, who is known for his work for Deafheaven and Loma Prieta. The album features a black metal and post-hardcore style infused with ""mathy post-rock, shoegaze and screamo"" elements, which drew comparisons to the works of Slint and Shirley in the post-hardcore genre. The vocalist Bryan Manning's sex-themed lyrics were also compared to the works of Pig Destroyer, Italo Calvino and Jorge Luis Borges.
Deafheaven / Bosse-de-Nage is a split EP between the American, San Francisco Bay Area black metal bands Deafheaven and Bosse-de-Nage. The album was released in an LP format through The Flenser on November 20, 2012. Deafheaven contributed a cover of the post-rock band Mogwai's ""Punk Rock"" and ""Cody"" from their 1999 album Come On Die Young, while Bosse-de-Nage contributed the original composition, ""A Mimesis of Purpose"".
A Darker Shade of Evil is an EP by the Norwegian black metal band Fleurety. This album was later included in Min Tid Skal Komme (Reissue) a re-issued version of Min Tid Skal Komme.
Black Shining Leather is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band Carpathian Forest. It was released in 1998 through Avantgarde Music, and re-issued in 2007 by Peaceville Records via digipak format. It was their only release to feature Lazare on drums, who left the band in the following year and would later join Borknagar.
Defending the Throne of Evil is the fourth studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Carpathian Forest. It was released on September 23, 2003 by Season of Mist. A remastered, deluxe double LP version with a bonus track was also released in 2007. The sonority of Defending the Throne of Evil is largely different from other Carpathian Forest albums, being their more melodic one so far; relying heavily on symphonic interludes, saxophones and synthesizers, it is loosely reminiscent of symphonic black metal.
Department of Apocalyptic Affairs is the second album by the Norwegian avant-garde metal band Fleurety. The band used many guest musicians from the Norwegian music scene.
Fuck You All!!!! Caput tuum in ano est is the fifth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Carpathian Forest. It was released in June 16, 2006 via Season of Mist, and as of 2017, it is their most recent release. It is also their first (and only) release with guitarist Gøran Bomann (a.k.a. ""Blood Pervertor"") on the band's line-up, and their last one with Tchort — both parted ways with Carpathian Forest in 2014 to form The 3rd Attempt. Contrasting with the symphonic approach of their previous album, Defending the Throne of Evil, Fuck You All!!!! is a throwback to Carpathian Forest's earlier, rawer musical style, reminiscent of their debut Black Shining Leather. The album's subtitle is Latin for ""Your head is [stuck up] in an anus"".
Min Tid Skal Komme (Norwegian for My Time Shall Come) is the debut album by the Norwegian avant-garde metal band Fleurety. The album was re-released in 2003 with the inclusion of their EP A Darker Shade of Evil. In 2008 it was re-released on vinyl in a limited edition of 600 copies through Aesthetic Death Records. All music and lyrics are by Svein Egil Hatlevik and Alexander Nordgaren.
Morbid Fascination of Death is the third studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Carpathian Forest. It was released in 2001 by Avantgarde Music, and it was the last album to feature guitarist and founding member Johnny ""Nordavind"" Krøvel on the band's line-up. It was also their last studio album to be released by Avantgarde before they switched to Season of Mist. It was re-released in 2007 by Peaceville Records under digipak form, with two bonus tracks. The track ""Carpathian Forest"" is a re-recorded version of the eponymous track present in their debut EP, Through Chasm, Caves and Titan Woods.
Strange Old Brew is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Carpathian Forest. It was released on November 6, 2000, through Avantgarde Music. It was re-released under digipak format in 2007 by Peaceville Records, containing an extra track. Contrasting with the previous Carpathian Forest releases, the sonority of Strange Old Brew is their most experimental one so far, mixing black metal with jazz interludes. It was their first release with Anders Kobro and Tchort in the band's line-up. The track ""Theme from Nekromantikk"" (sic) is a cover of the opening theme of the controversial 1987 horror movie Nekromantik, directed by Jörg Buttgereit. The track ""Return of the Freezing Winds"" is one of the first tracks of Carpathian Forest's repertoire, being present already in their first demo tapes, Rehearsal Outtake and Bloodlust and Perversion.
Through Chasm, Caves and Titan Woods is an EP by Norwegian black metal band Carpathian Forest. Released in 1995, through Avantgarde Music, this is Carpathian Forest's first studio release. The title is taken from an Edgar Allan Poe poem, ""Dream-Land"". The record was particularly popular with Norwegian fans upon its release.
Abbath is the self-titled debut album by former Immortal frontman Abbath. It was released on January 22, 2016 through Season of Mist. It is the only album to feature drummer Creature before his departure in December 2015. On January 12, 2016, the entire album was made available for streaming.
Bloody Tales of Disgraced Lands is a debut full-length concept album about the war of the Clan of Cross by the German Viking / pagan metal band Wolfchant. It was released on November 25, 2005 through CCP Records.
""One Rode to Asa Bay"" is a song by Bathory about the Christianization of Scandinavia and appears on the 1990 album Hammerheart. Cover versions of the song have been recorded by Opera IX and Mystic Circle. Quorthon dedicated the song to C. Dean Andersson, who had earlier sent some of his books to Quorthon. The village's name in the song, Asa Bay, comes from pseudonym Asa Drake which Andersson used in some of his books.
Destroyer of Worlds is the tenth studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released on 9 October 2001, through Black Mark Production.
Jubileum Vol. I is a compilation album by Bathory. It was succeeded by Jubileum Volume II and Jubileum Volume III.
Jubileum Volume II is a compilation album by Bathory. It was preceded by Jubileum Volume I (1992) and succeeded by Jubileum Volume III (1998).
Jubileum Volume III is a compilation album by Bathory. It was preceded by Jubileum Volume I and Jubileum Volume II. The song ""In Nomine Satanas"" is an alternate version of the song ""Bond of Blood"" from the 1991 album Twilight of the Gods. The song ""Satan My Master"" is one of the most covered songs of the band.
...Prefering [sic] Human Skin Over Animal Fur... is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released in July 2007 by Epicene Sound Replica. The album would appear in its entirety on the compilation Collected Atrocities 2005–2008, released in 2015.
...Spasming and Howling, Bowels Loosening and Bladders Emptying, Vomiting Helplessly... is a compilation album by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released in August 2007. Intended as an entry point into the project's music until that point, the album comprises three previously released and three previously unreleased compositions.
Abyss of Longing Throats is the twelfth studio album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on August 7, 2015 by Crucial Blast.
All the Dread Magnificence of Perversity is the fourth full-length studio album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on May 10, 2009 by Burning World and Crucial Blast.
An Epiphanic Vomiting of Blood is the third full-length studio album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on December 15, 2007 by Burning World and Señor Hernandez Records. It was re-issued in 2008 by Crucial Blast and became Gnaw Their Tongues' first album to be released on Compact Disc in the United States. This allowed for wider distribution and marked the first time the project garnered critical interest, with comparisons being favorably drawn to the music of Napalm Death and Carcass.
Bubonic Burial Rites is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released on November 21, 2007.
Clavicula Salomonis is an EP by De Magia Veterum, independently released in September 2005.
Collected Atrocities 2005–2008 is a compilation album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on February 3, 2015 by Crucial Blast. The album comprises three EPs that had previously been issued on CD with several compilation and unreleased tracks.
Dawn Breaks Open Like a Wound That Bleeds Afresh is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released in November 2007 by Universal Tongue.
Deathdrone 3 is a compilation album by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released in 2007. The album comprises remixed recordings made during 2005 and 2006 that weren't compatible with the music of Spit at Me and Wreak Havoc on My Flesh and Horse Drawn Hearse. The compositions ""Nihilism; Tied Up and Burning"", ""Anhedonia"" (later re-titled ""The Evening Wolves"") and ""Destroying Is Creating"" later appeared on Gnaw Their Tongues' second full-length album Reeking Pained and Shuddering.
Die Mutter wählt das Todtenkleidchen is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on August 7, 2007 by Corps-Morts Records. The 2009 re-release coupled the album with the EP Dawn Breaks Open Like a Wound That Bleeds Afresh and three additional previously unreleased tracks.
Dimlit Hate Cellar is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released on January 4, 2010. The album compiles some of Gnaw Their Tongues' earliest recordings.
Dyodyo Asema is a collaborative EP by Alkerdeel and Gnaw Their Tongues, released on January 13, 2014 by ConSouling Sounds.
Embraced by Fire is the fifth album of the German Viking / pagan metal band Wolfchant. It was released on May the 1st, 2013 in digipak format through NoiseArt Records and contains both new material and a re-recorded version of their first album Bloody Tales of Disgraced Lands.
Eschatological Scatology is the seventh full-length studio album by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released on June 6, 2012.
For All Slaves a Song of False Hope is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released in September 2008 by Burning World. The title of the track ""Aderlating"" would serve as the name of de Jong's band. The album would appear in its entirety on the compilation Collected Atrocities 2005–2008, released in 2015.
Horse Drawn Hearse is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released in February 2006. The album would appear in its entirety on the compilation Collected Atrocities 2005–2008, released in 2015.
In Conspectu Divinae Majestatis is an EP by De Magia Veterum, independently released on September 1, 2010. The tracks were originally recorded with the intention of being placed on a split release alongside another band's work.
Issei Sagawa is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released on August 24, 2007. The album takes its name from Issei Sagawa, a Japanese man who murdered and cannibalized a Dutch woman named Renée Hartevelt in 1981. The music draws more from industrial music than previous work by Gnaw Their Tongues.
Kaolo is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released in January 2010.
L'arrivée de la terne mort triomphante (French for Death in all its ineffable grandeur) is the fifth full-length studio album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on September 7, 2010 by Burning World, Crucial Blast and Candlelight Records. The album showcased a change in musical direction, with more emphasis on orchestration and lighter moods. The album also marked the last time Maurice de Jong recorded a Gnaw Their Tongues album using his old studio and computer setup. It received high marks from music critics, with PopMatters ranking it as one of the greatest heavy metal albums of the year.
Migdal Bavel is the second studio album by De Magia Veterum, released on January 20, 2009 by Mistress Dance Records and Transcendental Creations. It was first issued on cassette, with the pressing limited to a hundred copies.
Moonlover is the second studio album by American black metal band Ghost Bath. Recorded by producer Joshua Schroeder in Michigan, it was released on April 10, 2015 through, Northern Silence Productions. The album is first Ghost Bath release after the band was revealed to be from North Dakota. The album drew comparisons to California-based black metal band Deafheaven in terms of style and song titles, which were criticized by Deafheaven guitarist Kerry McCoy. The album cover art features ""La Luna 1989"" by Guatemalan photographer Luis González Palma.
My Womb Is Barren is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on July 24, 2008 by At War With False Noise.
Per Flagellum Sanguemque, Tenebras Veneramus (Latin for With Blood and Whip, We Worship the Dark) is the sixth full-length studio album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on November 8, 2011 by Crucial Blast. The album saw a return to the more direct and aggressive sound of Gnaw Their Tongues' earlier work, which contrasts the more polished and lighter toned L'arrivée de la terne mort triomphante released the previous year.
Reeking Pained and Shuddering is the second full-length studio album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on September 8, 2007 by Paradigms Recordings.
Rend Each Other Like Wild Beasts, Till Earth Shall Reek With Midnight Massacre is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on May 16, 2009 by At War With False Noise.
Spikes Through Eyes is the debut studio album of De Magia Veterum, independently released on June 16, 2005. It was re-released in 2008 as De Magia Veterum appended with additional tracks recorded during the same session.
Spit at Me and Wreak Havoc on My Flesh is the debut full-length studio album of Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released in January 2006.
Sulfur is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released on February 20, 2013. The music centers around the theme of World War I and the album artwork is a photograph depicting three Canadian soldiers wounded by mustard gas (otherwise known as sulfur mustard).
The Apocalyptic Seven Headed Beast Arisen is an EP by De Magia Veterum, independently released on May 29, 2007.
The Blood of Prophet and Saints is an EP by De Magia Veterum, independently released on September 5, 2006.
The Blotched and the Unwanted is a compilation album by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on March 3, 2010 by Hell Lies in Others. The album comprises previously unreleased compositions recorded between 2006 and 2010.
The Deification is the fourth studio album by De Magia Veterum, released on October 22, 2012 by Transcendental Creations.
The Divine Antithesis is the third studio album by De Magia Veterum, released on February 7, 2011 by Transcendental Creations.
The Genocidal Deliverance is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on October 16, 2008 by At War With False Noise.
Tsutomu Miyazaki is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, released on March 3, 2010 by Hell Lies in Others. The album takes its name from Tsutomu Miyazaki, a Japanese serial killer who abducted and murdered four young girls. The music is thematically similar to 2007's Issei Sagawa, which was also based on a Japanese criminal.
Wir essen Seelen in der Nacht is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released in November 1, 2014.
Blood on Ice is the ninth studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released on 27 May 1996, through Black Mark Production. It is a concept album.
Blood Fire Death is the fourth studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released on 8 October 1988, through Music for Nations sublabel, Under One Flag. The album, although mostly black metal, includes some of the first examples of Viking metal.
Hammerheart is the fifth studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It continued the previous album Blood Fire Death's transition away from black metal to what became recognized as Viking metal, and is considered a cornerstone work of the genre.
Under the Sign of the Black Mark is the third studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was recorded in September 1986 and released on 11 May 1987 through New Renaissance Records and Under One Flag. It was a key album in the development of the black metal genre, and greatly influenced the Norwegian black metal scene that emerged in the early 1990s.
A Pagan Storm is the second full-length album by the German Viking / pagan metal band Wolfchant. It was released on April 6, 2007 through CCP Records.
Mantra is the second album by Norwegian progressive death metal band In Vain. It was released on January 18, 2010 by Indie Recordings. The album was recorded and mixed at the Dub Studio, in Kristiansand, between July 2008 and April 2009. The album was mastered in Strype Audio in May 2009. The album was met with generally positive reviews and have currently a rating of 4/5 stars on sputnikmusic. There were released at special double disc edition with the bonus track ""In Remembrance"", which is a re-recorded version of the track first released on the ""Wounds"" EP in 2005. This album does not feature Even Fuglestad as an official member, but his contributions were credited as guest. Current guitarist Kjetil D. Pedersen was also featured as a guest on this album.
The Latter Rain is the debut album by Norwegian progressive death metal band In Vain, released on March 29, 2007 in Europe by Indie Recordings. The album was recorded at the Dub Studio, in Kristiansand, between June and October 2006, except from the Organ, recorded in Kristiansand Symfoniorkesters studio in Marvika, Kristiansand. The album features a lot of guests, including producer Endre Kirkesola on organs, Jan Kenneth Transeth on vocals, and George Wright on spoken words. It gained a small, but positive, fan base and have currently a rating of 4.5/5 stars on allmusic.com and sputnikmusic. Some rare pressings of this record includes a bonus track ""Epilogue: Alene"" which was first released on their EP, ""Wounds"". Both bassist/vocalist Kristian Wikstøl and guitarist Even Fuglestad were credited as band members on this record, even though they were not a part of the band when the album was recorded. Kristian Wikstøl sang some hardcore vocals as a guest. This is the last and only album to feature guitarist Magnus Olav Tveiten and bassist Ole Vistnes.
Ænigma is the third album by Norwegian progressive death metal band In Vain. It was released on March 11, 2013 by Indie Recordings. The album was recorded at the Strand Studio, in Kristiansand, between September and December 2012. The album was mixed and mastered in Fascination Street Studios in Sweden. The album was met with more positive reviews than the band's previous album, Mantra, and have currently a rating of 4.5/5 stars on sputnikmusic. The special edition of the album contains the bonus track ""Rise Against"". This is the first album to feature guitarist Kjetil D. Pedersen as a full-time member, as he were featured as a guest on Mantra.
Requiem is the seventh studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It eschews the Viking metal style of Bathory's three previous releases for a thrash metal style that recalls many of the bands that initially influenced Bathory. This album marks the return of Bathory after Quorthon put the band on hold to record his first solo album.
Twilight of the Gods is the sixth studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It continues the exploration of the newly created Viking metal style, and also displays heavy epic doom and classical influences; it is titled after an opera by Wagner. It is a mid-tempo, more acoustic album than previous Bathory releases, though it follows on from the Hammerheart album. Of significance is Quorthon's total control of the album, playing all electric and acoustic guitar, keyboards, bass, and drum programming. The background vocals are a particular feature of this album, with Quorthon multi-tracking himself, as he did on the Hammerheart album, though this time in a more sophisticated way, sounding like a whole chorus at times. The song entitled Hammerheart is based on a melody from Gustav Holst's The Planets. Specifically, it is Quorthon's own ""rearrangement"" of the middle section of the fourth movement, Jupiter. Originally this was to be the final Bathory album.
Bathory is the debut studio album by Swedish extreme metal band Bathory. It was released in October 1984, through Tyfon Grammofon. It is deemed by many fans and critics to be the first black metal record.
Wenn die leere Seele zur Hölle fährt is an EP by Gnaw Their Tongues, independently released on June 30, 2016.
Manifest is Impaled Nazarene's 10th full-length studio album.
Nord is the debut full-length album by French post-metal band Year of No Light, released in 2006. It was originally released by Radar Swarm (CD), E-Vinyl & Atropine (LP), and reissued later by Crucial Blast for the U.S. version.
Reptilian is the fifth studio album by the Norwegian extreme metal band Keep of Kalessin, released on 10 May 2010 in Europe and on 8 June 2010 in North America through Nuclear Blast. The album peaked at number two on the Norwegian record chart, VG-lista. This would be the last album with Torbjørn ""Thebon"" Schei on vocals before being fired in 2013.
INRI is Psyclon Nine's second studio album, released on April 26, 2005 by Metropolis Records in the US, and NoiTekk in Germany. INRI comes from the Latin phrase which, translated into English, means ""Jesus the Nazarene, King of the Jews"". The songs are of the dark, aggrotech genre focusing on religious themes. The album contains a cover of Ministry's ""You Know What You Are"". The original album cover was changed because of nudity. It would only be sold in European stores. The new cover is that of the band's logo and bloody wings lying below it.
Microcosmos is the seventh album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released on June 22 (July 14 in US), 2009. It has released as a CD digipack (unlimited) and as a box set (limited to 500 copies) by Season of Mist, under the label Underground Activists. In this album, the band continues using lyrics from Ukrainian poets, like Ivan Franko on ""Distant Cries of Cranes"", Oleh Olzhych on ""Decadence"", or Bohdan Rubchak on ""Ars Poetica"". The last track (""Widow's Grief"") is taken from the soundtrack of the Ukrainian movie Atentat (1995), like the intro on the previous album Estrangement (""Solitary Endless Path""). The film is about the life and assassination of Stepan Bandera, leader of Ukrainian Insurgent Army, a Ukrainian partisan nationalist group during and after World War II. The album was praised by critics: it was ranked 11 in Terrorizer Top 40 Albums of 2009 and 3 in Top 30 Metal Albums of 2009 by Haunting the Chapel, the Stereogum heavy music section.
Regie Sathanas: A Tribute to Cernunnos is an EP by Belgian black metal band, Enthroned.
Erotik (English: Eroticism) is the second full-length album by Swedish black metal band Lifelover, released on CD in February 2007 by Total Holocaust Records & on vinyl in October 2007 by Eternity Records and Blut & Eisen Productions in limited edition of 500 copies (first 100 are pressed on red wax). This album sees the band drop some of the more conventional black metal elements from their sound, as well as add more elements of rock music. Track 12 contains the song ""M/S Salmonella"", from the band's previous album, Pulver, played in reverse.
In Nomine Satanas is the fourth album by Norwegian black metal band Ragnarok, released in 2002.
Nocturnal Poisoning is a 2002 album by the American black metal band Xasthur. The CD version of the album is limited to 2,000 copies.
The Funeral of Being is a 2003 album by the American black metal band Xasthur.
100% Skuldgevoelvry (100% Guiltfree) is the second album by the South African heavy metal band Kobus!, released in 2004 on the ENT Entertainment imprint. Francois Breytenbach Blom and Theo Crous continue on the experimental side of the fence with an album more than twice the length of their debut of 2002. The album includes heavier tracks, hinting at Crous and Blom's original hard rock and heavy metal histories.
A Nordic Poem is the first studio album of the musical project Folkearth. Because of the bad sound quality it was remastered and reissued. There was around 60 minutes of material, but some of it got lost.
Blackdoor Miracle  is the fifth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Ragnarok, released on January March 26, 2004 under Regain Records.
Defective Epitaph is a 2007 album by the American one-man black metal act Xasthur. This is the first recording on which Malefic played acoustic drums, although some tracks still make use of a drum machine. Like previous Xasthur albums, the lyrics were not released to the public (""The lyrics are unavailable upon request"" inside the CD box). It was described by one reviewer as Xasthur's most accessible release to date. The Japanese edition released on Daymare Recordings features a bonus disc containing 5 unreleased tracks.
Odinist: The Destruction of Reason by Illumination is the sixth album by French avant-garde black metal band Blut Aus Nord. It leaked to the Internet on September 10, 2007. The album's subtitle comes from the writings of Aleister Crowley.
Swaar Metaal is the third studio album by South African heavy metal band Kobus!, released on the independent record label Rhythm Records in March 2007. The ten-track album (and unlisted hidden track) sees the band's founder-members, Francois Breytenbach Blom and Theo Crous breaking away from the previous two albums experimental approach and returning to their metal roots.
Thematic Emanation of Archetypal Multiplicity: Soundtracks for Scientists of Occult Synchretism is an EP by French black metal band Blut Aus Nord, but it explores more industrial and avant-garde territory than the group's previous material, foreshadowing the direction the group would take on its 2006 album MoRT. This EP is considered a sort of companion piece to the band's 2003 album, The Work Which Transforms God, and indeed was released as a double-disc set with The Work Which Transforms God in one issue.
Acidity is the fifth album by Indonesian avant-garde metal band Kekal. It was recorded in celebration of the band's tenth anniversary, and was an official reunion album for the band. It marked the return of guitarist Leo Setiawan to the band, and includes the vocal talents of founding member Newbabe. The album was released following the band's successful 2004 European mini-tour, and a promotional concert and release party was held for the album on 13 March 2005 in Indonesia. It was considered by many to be the band's strongest work to date, and is one of four albums available for free download from the band on its website. There is a music video created for the song ""Dream for a Moment"".
Audible Minority is the seventh full-length studio album by Indonesian experimental metal band Kekal. According to the band, the album is titled ""Audible Minority"" because the music on the album is of extreme minority status, and is ""entirely bleak, gloom and dark."" They also said that the album was constructed over almost two years, during various events in the band members lives. Jeff Arwadi recorded the entire songs on this album all by himself, and started shortly after he moved to Canada in 2006. There is an official music video for the song ""Narrow Avenue"". The album was originally supposed to be released by a now-defunct record label NePlusUltra Music in CD format in December 2008, with the first pressing a special digipak release that was hand-numbered and limited to 777 copies. Unfortunately, the physical release never came about, and the album was released instead as a free digital download on 25 December 2012. In December 2012, four years after the initial release date, the album was finally being released physically, as a bonus-CD of the limited hand-numbered deluxe double-CD edition of a 2012 Kekal album Autonomy, while the free download version had been discontinued in favor of the paid download, which is now made available on the band's Bandcamp page. The A-ha cover song ""Locust"" is not included on the CD version, but included as a hidden bonus track on the digital download version.
Desire of Damnation is a double CD by the Italian gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires. The first disc is a live album and contains all the tracks from the DVD The Addiction Tour 2006. Disc two features four new songs as well as five remixed songs.
Embrace the Dead is the second album by Indonesian extreme metal band Kekal. It reached sold-out status in 2004. On 15 August 2010, a new, remastered limited edition entitled Embrace the Dead 1999 was released as a free download, for up to a 1000 downloads. On 18 May 2012, Kekal made the re-mastered edition available for purchase on Bandcamp, citing exorbitant prices for second-hand copies of the original album on sites like Amazon.
Introduce Us to Immortality is the first compilation album by extreme progressive metal band Kekal. It is a best-of collection of works and re-recordings by the band dating from 1995 to 2003. Several tracks were digitally re-mastered at 24-bit processing, and two of the tracks were previously unreleased. The album included a full-color professional booklet cover, which contained a history of the band's progression from their first demo to their latest full-length album 1000 Thoughts of Violence. According to the band, the purpose of the album was to give fans of the band a chance to hear earlier Kekal material, much of which was sold out.
Lawless Darkness is the fourth studio album by Swedish black metal band Watain, released through Season of Mist, on 7 June 2010. The cover art was made by Zbigniew M. Bielak, who also painted The Wild Hunt cover art.
The Addiction Tour 2006 is the first live DVD by the Italian gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires. It features ten songs recorded during the tour in 2006 and also features an interview with Sonya Scarlet, as well as two music videos the band had recorded for the songs ""Lilith Mater Inferorum"" and ""Angel of Lust"". The live songs were also released as a live album in the band's next release, Desire of Damnation.
The Painful Experience is the third full-length studio album by Indonesian extreme metal band Kekal. It marks the transition of Kekal from straightforward melodic black metal to a more distinct progressive metal style, while still retaining the intensity and speed. The title refers to the recording sessions for Embrace the Dead. Guitarist Leo Setiawan left the band before the recording sessions began and moved to Melbourne, Australia, but he was still listed on the album credits as a guitarist due to his contribution to the album's songwriting and general concept. The album was released by four independent labels: Fear Dark in the Netherlands for the European market, Clenchedfist Records in the United States for the North American market, Indonesian label THT Productions for the Southeast Asian market, and HROM/HIRAX for Eastern European market.
Above the Weeping World is the third studio album by Insomnium. It was released on August 9, 2006 in Europe and on October 17, 2006 elsewhere by Candlelight Records. A music video was made for ""Mortal Share."" During its first week the album peaked at #9 on the Finnish album charts (week 39/2006). The album's lyrics have been influenced (and occasionally taken) from classic poets like Hölderlin, Edgar Allan Poe and Finnish classic Eino Leino. The last track of the album, ""In the Groves of Death"" lasts about ten minutes, and its main theme is heavily inspired by Leino's poem Tumma, the ending poem of his saga Helkavirsiä. The entire poem ""The Night Has a Thousand Eyes"" by English poet Francis William Bourdillon is used as a chorus in the album's third track ""Drawn to Black"".Above the Weeping World has received extraordinary reviews both in Finland (e.g. SUE magazine 10/10)) and abroad (e.g. Kerrang! 5/5), and the album debuted on the Finnish album charts at the 9th position (week 39/2006), which is a remarkable achievement for a melodic death metal band. At the same time Insomnium embarked on their first full European tour, playing 36 gigs in six weeks (5.9 - 15.10), in 15 countries.
Servants of Sorcery is a Norwegian black metal album by Fimbulwinter, released by Hot Records in 1994. The album is actually a remaster of Fimbulwinter's 1992 demo, with an additional song.
Dying Emotions Domain is the first studio album by black metal band Astrofaes. It was re-released on CD format in 2001 on Chanteloup Creations. ""Necromantical Screams"" is a Celtic Frost cover.
The Eyes of the Beast is the second studio album by black metal band Astrofaes. It was released on Oriana Records in 2000 and was re-released in 2003 by Oaken Shield Records.
Memoria Vetusta II – Dialogue with the Stars is the seventh album by French avant-garde black metal band Blut Aus Nord. The album demonstrates more traditional black metal songwriting and structure than previous album MoRT, with critics noting that stylistically this album represents a balance between the band's more experimental work and the band's earlier, more traditional black metal releases.
Beyond the Glimpse of Dreams is the debut album by Indonesian extreme metal band Kekal released in 1998. Vocalist Harry left the band after the album's release.
Portal of Sorrow is the eighth studio album by American black metal act Xasthur.
Norrøn livskunst is the seventh studio album by Norwegian avant-garde black metal band Solefald and their first album released through Indie Recordings.
Embrace the Eternal is the debut album by the Christian metal band, Embodyment.
Night on Earth is the third and latest release by the black metal band Dawn of Relic. It was released in 2005 on Season of Mist records, and was re-issued again in 2006 and 2008.
The End of the World is the first full length studio album by the black metal band Godkiller. It's the fourth album overall. It was released in 1998 on Wounded Love Records.
Heathen is the fourth studio album by American metal band Thou. It was released on March 25, 2014 through Gilead Media.
The Merciless is an album by the Norwegian black/thrash metal band Aura Noir. It features guest appearances by members of Darkthrone and Carpathian Forest. Design by Justin Bartlett.
Scarlet Evil Witching Black is the second album by the Greek black metal band Necromantia. It was released in 1995 on Osmose Productions and in 2002 it was re-issued as part of the Cults of the Shadow double CD. In 2006 the album was re-issued with a bonus track by Black Lotus records as part of a boxed set titled Necromantia containing the three full lengths and the Ancient Pride EP.
Autumn Aurora is the second album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released in 2004. It is the first Drudkh album to incorporate synthesizers and, as with its predecessor, its lyrics have never been released. Some releases of Autumn Aurora have ""Summoning the Rain"" and ""Glare of Autumn"" combined as a single track.The album has been re-released on November 9, 2009, by Season of Mist, featuring a remastered sound and a new album artwork. Autumn Aurora was a strong critical success, and was chosen as the best album of the year by Chronicles of Chaos web-zine. Most releases of the album have the titles only in English, but the iTunes release uses both English and Ukrainian language titles.
Blood in Our Wells (Ukrainian: Кров у наших криницях, Krov u nashykh krynytsyakh) is the fourth album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released in 2006 and dedicated to the memory of Stepan Bandera, legendary leader of the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists. The name of the album comes from a line of the 1935 poem by Oleh Olzhych and, like its predecessor, it features lyrics taken from classical Ukrainian poetry, and the sound is more influenced by folk music and pagan metal this time around, with most compositions consisting of two or more interlocking movements. As with The Swan Road, lyrics are taken from classical Ukrainian literature. The lyrics to ""Furrows of Gods"" are adapted from a 1980 poem by Lina Kostenko; the lyrics to ""When the Flame Turns to Ashes"" are adapted from a 1908 poem by Oleksandr Oles; the lyrics to ""Solitude"" are once again taken from the 1839 work of Taras Shevchenko; and the lyrics to ""Eternity"" are lifted verbatim from the 1929 work of Yuriy Klen. Several tracks also sample the Ukrainian poetic film Mamay (2003), and for this reason Blood in Our Wells has been described as ""more cinematic"" than its predecessors. The inlay cover of a CD edition of the album contains text of a 1957 patriotic poem of Ukrainian poet Vasyl Symonenko. Blood in our Wells was released in two non-vinyl formats: normal jewel case (unlimited and available everywhere), and super jewel case plus (limited to 1000 hand-numbered copies and made available only through Supernal Music). It was a first Drudkh record to appear in Terrorizer Top 40 year list, achieving the 35 position. In 2010, it was re-released as a digipak with new artwork via Season of Mist.
Forgotten Legends is the first full-length album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh. The album's sound and atmosphere have often been compared favourably to those of Burzum. The lyrics to the album are a complete mystery, as they have never been released. The album was remastered and reissued on Season of Mist's Underground Activists label in 2009 as a digipak with new artwork. Forgotten Legends is considered to be a classic and was included in an all-time Top 40 Black Metal Albums list by Terrorizer magazine. Most releases of the album list the song titles only in English, but the iTunes release lists both English and Ukrainian language titles.
Hin Vordende Sod & Sø is the first full-length album by the Norwegian viking / folk metal band Ásmegin. It was released on August 25, 2003 by Napalm Records. Album lyrics are written in Norwegian, Old Norse, and older Norwegian.
Songs of Grief and Solitude (Ukrainian: Пісні Скорботи і Самітності, Pіsnі skorboty і samіtnosti) is the fifth album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released in 2006. It marks a radical departure from previous Drudkh works in that all songs are entirely acoustic, arranged in the manner of traditional Ukrainian folk. Several songs contain elements of previous Drudkh material: ""Tears of Gods"" contains elements of ""Fate"", ""The Milky Way"" is a rearranged version of ""Blood"" and ""Archaic Dance"" references ""Glare of 1768"", all three of which originally appeared on The Swan Road. ""Why the Sun Becomes Sad"" contains elements of ""Sunwheel"" from Autumn Aurora, and ""The Cranes Will Never Return Here"" is an acoustic rendition of the opening riff from the Blood in Our Wells track ""Solitude"". In 2010, it was re-released as digipak by Season of Mist.
Subliminal Genocide is a 2006 album by the American one-man black metal act Xasthur. It was reviewed as being ""more spiteful than...previous albums"".
The Swan Road (Ukrainian: Лебединий шлях, Lebedynyy shlyakh) is the third album by the Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released in 2005. It is characterized by shorter songs and more prominent lyrics than are found on previous Drudkh releases; the lyrics are all taken from the work The Haidamakas (1841) by Ukrainian national poet Taras Shevchenko, narrating about the famous Ukrainian anti-Polish peasant rebellion of 1768. The name of the introductory track comes from the year 1648, when the greatest Cossack anti-Polish uprising set in Ukraine. The final track is an epic song on the destruction of Zaporizhian Sich by the Russian army in 1775. This album contains an increased use of distortion in the mix and more frequent usage of blast beats, but the last three tracks are considerably more low-key for Drudkh, with the final track being a folk ballad, presaging the direction they would pursue farther on the following year's Songs of Grief and Solitude. The final track (""Song of Sich Destruction"") is not performed by Drudkh, but is a recording of a traditional Ukrainian Duma (folk song) performed by the bandura-player Igor Rachok.
Agnen: A Journey Through the Dark is Keep of Kalessin's second album. Avantgarde Music, the record label, mixed the running order of the tracks 1, 4 and 6 on the album (the rest is correct). There are two different versions of this album, with different running orders. The first edition has track 1 Pain Humanised, track 4 Dryland and track 6 Dragonlord. The second edition (this version is as the band intended it) has track 1 Dryland, track 4 Dragonlord and track 6 Pain Humanised. Both of these are different from what it says on the back of the CD-case. On the back of the CD-case, the running order is as the track listing shows below.
An Icelandic Odyssey is a two-part concept album series by Norwegian avant-garde metal band Solefald. The first part, Red for Fire, was released on 18 October 2005, while the second part, Black for Death, was released on 24 November 2006. The band was quoted as saying ""Solefald was experimenting when everybody was being true. Now that things are changing and that we've pushed the experiment quite far already, we wanted Red for Fire plus Black for Death to be our attempts at being 'true'. This will be a true Nordic Viking metal album."" Both albums could be considered a play on how Solefald describe their music, which is as ""red music with black edges"".
Anagogic Tyranny is the third studio album by the Canadian technical death metal band Sympathy, released on November 11, 2008 on Bombworks Records. The album features lead guitar work by the new member Jeff Lewis, and drumming work by Into Eternity member Jim Austin. The cover artwork was done by Jeff Arwadi of Soundmind Graphics and the band Kekal. In some interviews, Dharok stated the songs are character studies based on the book series Prince of Nothing.
Black Legions Metal is a split album by Vlad Tepes and Torgeist, two French black metal bands belonging to the ""Black Legions"" circle. It follows the earlier split album March to the Black Holocaust, and features mostly the same personnel, as the Torgeist line-up includes both Aäkon Këëtrëh and Vordb from Belketre.
Death Comes in 26 Carefully Selected Pieces is the tenth album by the Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. It was recorded live at the Tavastia Club in Helsinki on December 19, 2004 and released in 2005.
'Reclaim' is Keep of Kalessin's first EP. It was released on December 6, 2003 in the United States and in Europe on January 15, 2004 as a Mini CD. It was recorded in July, 2003 in Silverstone Studios and Schweinhund Studios. The EP was produced by Schwein and Obsidian C.. The EP was mixed by Schwein and mastered by Masterhuset. The cover design was done by MultiMono, by Asgeir Mickelson Frost (Satyricon) heard the new Keep of Kalessin material and immediately said yes when Obsidian C. asked him to do the drumming on this new EP. Touring with Satyricon also made it possible for Obsidian C. to recruit the legendary Attila Csihar for the vocals on Reclaim who is well known for the vocals on Mayhem´s De Mysteriis Dom Sathanas. The three piece line-up recorded the EP which put the band into the Elite black metal scene of Norway, but due to the distance between Frost, Attila and Obsidian C., this line-up was short-lived. Attila did all the vocals on this release. However, Obsidian C. performed additional vocals on Come Damnation and Reclaim. Obsidian C. is also responsible for writing the music, except for IX which was written by Obsidian C. and S. Groenbech. Traveler was written, but also performed by S. Groenbech alone. The lyrics were written by Torstein Parelius, courtesy of Chton and Manes. The lyrics of Reclaim were written by Obsidian C. and he was also responsible for the lyrical arrangements, together with Attila.
Armada is the third studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Keep of Kalessin. The album was originally released under Tabu Records, however a 2 vinyl set of the album was released on Back On Black. The release features the return of drummer Vyl, and new bassist Wizziac and vocalist Thebon.
Asgard is the third album by the German folk black metal band Adorned Brood. It was released on 16 June 2000.
Chaos Magick is the second studio album by Finnish black metal band Saturnian Mist. It was recorded at the Blackvox Studio at Tampere, Finland in April–September 2014 and mastered at the Turan Audio in Oxford, UK by Tim Turan in October 2014. The title refers to Chaos magic, also spelled chaos magick, a postmodern magical tradition developed by Peter J. Carroll and Ray Sherwin but greatly influenced by the works of Aleister Crowley and Austin Osman Spare Two music videos were made from the album, both directed and edited by fra. Zetekh. First one ""The True Law"" was released also as a single in December 2014 and the second music video was from the track ""Bloodsoaked Chakrament"". CD version was released by Candlelight Records in April 27, 2015 and the vinyl version was released by Saturnal Records. Vinyl version does not include the track ""Yoga, Hate, Fuck"".
Rapture is the fifth full-length album of the Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. It was released in 1998 on Osmose Productions.
Monumental Possession is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dødheimsgard. It was released in 1996, through the record label Malicious. It is their second and final completely black metal album, before the band incorporated industrial and avant-garde elements into their sound on future releases. Monumental Possession was re-released in 1999 by Century Media Records.
Pulver (English: Powder) is the first full-length album by Swedish black metal band Lifelover, released in 2006.
Folkfuck folie is the second album by French black metal band Peste Noire. A limited vinyl version co-produced by Northern Heritage and De profundis éditions was released in April 2010. It includes a long 2007 interview answered by Famine.
Introspection is the second extended play by the Norwegian extreme metal band Keep of Kalessin, released on 9 April 2013 in Norway. The EP contains two new songs, as well as a re-done ""extreme version"" of their song ""The Dragontower"".
Kingdom of Fear is the fourth studio album by the Swedish band In Battle. The album was released through Candlelight Records and Nocturnal Arts Productions.
One for Sorrow is the fifth studio album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Insomnium. It was released on October 12, 2011 in Finland, October 17, 2011 throughout the rest of Europe, and October 18, 2011 in the USA, on Century Media Records. Music videos were released for the tracks ""One for Sorrow"", ""Through the Shadows"" and ""Regain the Fire"".
Aesthethica is the second studio album by Brooklyn-based black metal band Liturgy. Produced by Krallice guitarist Colin Marston, the album was released on May 10, 2011 via Thrill Jockey. Spin ranked it as number 26 on Spin's 50 Best Albums of 2011, and Pitchfork placed the album at number 41 on its list of the ""Top 50 albums of 2011"".
December Moon is the debut demo tape by Swedish extreme metal band Morbid. The album was recorded at Thunderload Studios in Stockholm on 5 and 6 December 1987. With this demo, Morbid became notorious and had a great impact upon the Swedish death metal scene. December Moon was reissued in 1994 and 2000.
Moonlight Waltz Tour 2011 is a live CD and DVD from the Italian gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires. It is the first all-in-one live CD and DVD release from the band, though Theatres des Vampires have released one live CD (Desire of Damnation) and one live DVD (The Addiction Tour 2006), separately. In addition to the live tracks, the CD contains three new studio songs from The Cult of Lamia soundtrack. The limited edition package also includes a 40-page book.
Out To Die is the fifth studio album by the Norwegian black/thrash metal band Aura Noir. Artwork, Cover, Layout by Chioreanu Costin.
Urwerk is the first compilation album of the German folk metal band Finsterforst, consisting of the re-release of their first two studio albums.
Weltenkraft (English: Worldpower) is the debut album of the German folk metal band Finsterforst.
Wiege der Finsternis (English: Cradle of Darkness) is the first studio release of the German folk metal band Finsterforst. It was recorded at the Iguana Studios with the help of a drum machine, as the band did not have a drummer at the time.
Renihilation is the debut album from Brooklyn, New York black metal band Liturgy. It was released on May 8, 2009, through 20 Buck Spin Records. It was reissued on Thrill Jockey record label on August 26, 2014.
Sunbather is the second studio album by the American metal band Deafheaven. After the release of their debut record Roads to Judah, the then two piece group consisting of George Clarke and Kerry Mccoy began work on Sunbather under the label Deathwish and recorded in several days in January 2013. The recording process brought a third member into the fold with drummer Dan Tracy who would go on to become a permanent fixture of the band. The album was recorded in The Atomic Garden Recording Studio, owned by Jack Shirley who had been a long time producer of the band. Although Deafheaven had been strongly influenced by black metal as well as diverse other metal acts, their music drew comparisons from music critics to shoegaze, post-rock, and alternative rock sounds. This trend was further continued on Sunbather. The melancholic songs featured in the album include wall of sound arrangements that are found in many shoegazing and post-rock acts, producing dense sounds that sometimes breakdown into slower, melodic parts that are then topped with vocalist George Clarke's reverb-soaked screaming style singing of lyrics. The album also contains a few interludes that include sampling, field recording, and droning. Sunbather was released in June 2013 and received universal critical acclaim, with Metacritic acknowledging it as ""the best-reviewed major album"" of the year.
Aruagint is the third album by Norwegian black/thrash metal band Sarke. It was released September 20, 2013 via Indie Recordings.
Oldarhian is the second album by Norwegian black/thrash metal band Sarke. It was released April 15, 2011 via Indie Recordings.
Order of the Shadow: Act I is the fifth studio album by the American band Psyclon Nine. It was officially released through Metropolis Records on November 12, 2013. Order of the Shadow: Act I is the third and final installment in the trilogy of albums that started with Crwn Thy Frnicatr and We the Fallen. According to frontman Nero Bellum, it is supposedly also Psyclon Nine's final album. In an interview Nero had this to say about the album: ""The trilogy came to me in a dream. Let’s put it this way, Order of the Shadow is the last Psyclon Nine record, although I may add installments to it, which is why I labeled it Act I. I always knew this would be the last record, so let’s see what happens."" Nero Bellum worked closely with Chris Vrenna (formerly of Nine Inch Nails and Marilyn Manson) on the production of the album. It continued the industrial black metal fusion previously heard on We the Fallen, but was heavily influenced by industrial rock, notably Marilyn Manson's Antichrist Superstar and Nine Inch Nails's The Downward Spiral.
Praise the Beast is the fourth studio album by Polish death metal band Azarath. It was released on May 25, 2009 by Agonia Records. It was also released on American label Deathgasm Records. The drums for the album were recorded at RG Studio in Gdańsk, Poland during September 2008. The guitars and bass were recorded at Progresja Studio in Warsaw during October 2008. The vocals and solos, as well as mixing and mastering for the album, were done at Sounds Great Promotion Studio in Gdynia, Poland between January and March 2009.
Vorunah is the debut album by Norwegian black/thrash metal band Sarke. It was released April 6, 2009 via Indie Recordings.
Blasphemers' Maledictions is the fifith studio album by Polish death metal band Azarath. It was released on June 29, 2011 by Witching Hour Productions. The album was recorded between January, February and April 2011 at Hertz Studio in Białystok, Poland, and was produced by Zbigniew ""Inferno"" Promiński, Sławomir Wiesławski and Wojciech Wiesławski. The album was preceded by the 7"" EP Holy Possession, which was released on April 10, 2011.
Diabolic Impious Evil' is the third studio album by Polish death metal band Azarath. It was released on September 16, 2006 by Pagan Records.
A Furrow Cut Short (Ukrainian: Борозна обірвалася, Borozna obirvalasya) is the tenth album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released April 20, 2015, on Season of Mist's Underground Activists label. It is the band's longest recording to date and the first to receive a vinyl release on two LPs.
Dreams of the Black Earth is the second release from the dark metal group Throes of Dawn and their second release with their label Woodcut Records.
In Times is the thirteenth studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Enslaved. It was released on the 10 March 2015 by Nuclear Blast.
Pakkasherra is the first release from Finnish dark metal group Throes of Dawn, and their first release with Woodcut Records.
The Ark Work is the third studio album by American black metal band Liturgy. It was released on March 24, 2015 through Thrill Jockey record label. The first single off the album, ""Quetzalcoatl"" was released digitally on January 20, 2015.
The Blackened Rainbow is the first EP release from the Dark Metal group Throes of Dawn and their first ever release with their label Woodcut Records.
Deliverance is the second full length studio album, fifth album overall, by the black metal band Godkiller. It was released in 2000 on Wounded Love Records.
Frost is the second studio album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released in 1994, through Osmose Productions. This would be the last album to feature drummer Trym Torson before he joined Emperor.
Pentagrammaton is the eighth studio album by the Belgian black metal band, Enthroned. The artwork was created by Neraath and the layout was done by Nornagest & Neraath. The Pentagrammaton Sigil was created by SECT.
Dödsfärd is the third studio album release by Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 2003. The word dödsfärd translates roughly as ""journey of death"" in Swedish.
Havets Vargar is the second studio album released by Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 2000. ""Havets vargar"" means ""wolves of the sea"" in Swedish, which is another name for pirates.
Nordstjärnans Tidsålder (English: Age of the Northern Star) is the first studio album release by Swedish Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 1998. This album showcases Månegarm's more black metal style, with elements of folk metal and viking metal.
Urminnes Hävd (The Forest Sessions) is an EP of purely folk music by the Viking metal band Månegarm. It was recorded with the folk band Två Fisk Och En Fläsk and released in 2006.
Vargaresa is a compilation album containing Vargaresa and Ur Nattvindar, two earlier demo albums by the Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 2004.
Vargstenen (English: The Wolf Stone) is the fifth studio album by Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 2007.
Vredens Tid (Age of Wrath) is the fourth studio album by the Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 2005.
1000 Thoughts of Violence is the fourth album by Indonesian extreme metal band Kekal, released in 2003. The central theme of the album is moral decline and the violent nature of humanity. This was the first and only major studio album by the band without the skills of additional guitarist Leo Setiawan. It is one of four albums available for free download on the official website.
Axioma Ethica Odini is the eleventh album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released on September 27, 2010 via Indie Recordings in Europe and on September 28, 2010 via Nuclear Blast in North America.
Nattväsen (English: Night Creatures) is the sixth studio album by the Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 2009.
Moonlight Waltz is the ninth studio album by the Italian gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires. A music video for the song ""Carmilla"" was filmed on August 28 and 29, directed by David Bracci, who worked on most of Dario Argento's films in the past decade and directed the ""Lilith Mater Inferorum"" music video. Is the moon tired? She looks so pale  Within her misty veil:  The scales of the sky from east to west,  And takes no rest.  Before the coming of the night  The moon shows papery white;  Before the dawning of the day  She fades away. — Booklet of Moonlight Waltz, originally from ""Sing-Song"" by Christina Georgina Rossetti
13 Years is the fifth album of the Swedish black metal band Nifelheim. It was released in 2003 on vinyl with limited 1000 copies. 13 Years contains Nifelheim's live and demo recordings.
Black Thrash Attack is the first studio album by the Norwegian black metal band Aura Noir. This is the first album to feature Blasphemer (Rune Eriksen) from Mayhem on guitars. As indicated in the title, this album is a mix of black metal and thrash metal and as such contains quite a few hints at early German thrash bands such as Kreator and Destruction. All songs by Aura Noir. Track 7 co-written by Aldrahn of Dødheimsgard.
Deep Tracts of Hell is an album by the Norwegian black metal band Aura Noir.
Devil's Force is the second album of Swedish black metal band Nifelheim. It was released in 1997 on CD and LP.
Dreams Like Deserts is the debut EP by the Norwegian black metal band Aura Noir.
Increased Damnation is a compilation album by the Norwegian black metal band Aura Noir. It includes their first mini-album Dreams Like Deserts (tracks 9 to 14). Released Damnation and Broth of Oblivion also appear on Deep Tracts of Hell but are different recordings than on the album. The tracks 5 to 8 are songs from Black Thrash Attack played live. Tower of Limbs and Fever is the first song by Aura Noir ever recorded.
Nifelheim is the self-titled debut album by Swedish black metal band Nifelheim.
Servants of Darkness is the third album of Swedish black metal band Nifelheim. It was released in 2000 on CD (first 1000 came with a slipcase), LP (only 1000 copies, 200 on golden vinyl) and on cassette by Rockor Disc in Romania.
Thunder Metal is a split EP of extreme metal bands Nifelheim and Vulcano. It was originally released on vinyl and includes four songs. The CD version also features ""Insulter of Jesus Christ"", a Damnation cover done by Nifelheim, featuring Jon Nödtveidt of Dissection as a guest guitarist.
Unholy Death is a 7"" vinyl EP by Swedish black metal band Nifelheim. It was released in 2000 as 7 inch EP limited to 666 copies of which 13 were in blue vinyl.
Anti-Urban is an EP released by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh on April 16, 2007 (see 2007 in music), by Supernal Music. It is the band's first EP and sixth release overall. It is only available directly from the label, and has been limited to a two-time-only pressing of 999 (of which only 992 were actually made) 10-inch vinyl records. In 2009, it was re-released in mini CD format by French label Season of Mist. This version was available only as a part of a box-set edition of their album Microcosmos, limited only to 500 copies. The first rip of the album to circulate around the Internet was taken, incorrectly, from a 33.3 RPM playing of the album. The album was intended to be played at 45 RPM, and therefore the nine-minute-plus versions of Anti-Urban tracks floating around the Internet are improperly ripped. This album, like Forgotten Legends, has vocals that are low in the mix, and the first track is entirely instrumental. As with Drudkh's first two albums, the lyrics to Anti-Urban have not been released. The tracks are rumoured to be outtakes from the Forgotten Legends sessions, although this has not been officially confirmed.
Sworn to the Dark is the third studio album by Watain and was released on 19 February 2007 on Season of Mist. It features 11 tracks, of which two are instrumentals (track 10, ""Dead But Dreaming"", is based on the H. P. Lovecraft quote ""In his house at R'lyeh, dead Cthulhu waits dreaming""). The album is mostly group-written (the ""Holy Trinity"" of Danielsson, Jonsson, and Forsberg), except for track 1, ""Legions of the Black Light"" (lyrics by Set Teitan, formerly of the black/death metal group Dissection), dedicated to Dissection's dead vocalist Jon Nödtveidt, and track 9, ""Darkness and Death"" (lyrics by Michayah Belfagor of the group Ofermod).
Telepathic with the Deceased is the third album by American black metal band Xasthur. It was released on August 17, 2004, on Moribund Records.
Arising Realm is the second studio album by Norwegian black metal band Ragnarok. It was released in 1997 through Head Not Found.Shagrath, most famous as a member of Dimmu Borgir, occasionally appears on this album, playing synthesizers.
Armoured Bestial Hell is the fourth album by the Belgian black metal band, Enthroned. The cover artwork is done by ROK.
Carnage in the Worlds Beyond is the fifth album by the Belgian black metal band, Enthroned. The cover artwork and layout is done by N. Daemon and Nornagest.
Dimensional Bleedthrough is the second album by New York-based experimental black metal band Krallice. The album was first officially mentioned by Profound Lore Records in a mailing list dated August 31, 2009, and via Twitter. This was followed by a premiere via Stereogum with one track available for preview. A double vinyl release was announced on October 14, 2009, to be released by Gilead Media February 19, 2010, though it was delayed until late May. The album's title song topped NPR's Viking's Choice: Metal And Outer Sound In '09 list.
In the Light of Darkness is the third studio album by the Swedish melodic death metal band Unanimated. It was released on Regain, 14 years after their last release, Ancient God of Evil (which was issued on No Fashion).
Taake is the fourth studio album by Norwegian black metal band Taake. It was released on October 20th, 2008.
Eternal Turn of the Wheel (Ukrainian Вічний оберт колеса, Vichnyy obert kolesa) is the ninth studio album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released on February 24 (March 13 in the USA), 2012, through Season of Mist's Underground Activists label.
Nightside Emanations is the fourth studio album by Behexen. The album was released through Debemur Morti Productions on 21 September 2012. Nightside Emanations features changes in the band's musical sound, this time incorporating more traditional death metal mixed with their traditional black metal sound. In addition, the vocals have drastically changed, the high pitched shrieks heard on the early albums are completely replaced by lower deathlike growls. The track ""We Burn With Serpent Fire"" contains a guest guitar solo by former Behexen guitarist Gargantum.
Autonomy is the ninth full-length studio album by Indonesian experimental metal band Kekal, first released on 19 December 2012 as CD version by German record label Whirlwind Records and then digitally by Indonesian record label Yes No Wave Music on June 29, 2013. This is a second Kekal album being recorded and released without official band members. The digital version of Autonomy can be downloaded for free from Archive.org. There are two official music videos published for this album: ""Futuride"" and ""Rare Earth Elements"", released by the band on YouTube prior to the album's release date.
Obey is an album released by the Canadian death metal band Axis of Advance in September 2004.
A Gate Through Bloodstained Mirrors is a 2001 demo by the American black metal one-man-band Xasthur. Reviews of that release, first published by Profane Productions as a limited CD-R edition of 150 copies, proved to be positive, comparing the material to old Graveland and Burzum. With the increasing cult status of Xasthur, the demo was reissued by Total Holocaust Records, featuring a different mix and track list (CD and cassette, 2004). This edition was also published as a double-12"" vinyl release by Debemur Morti Productions (2004) and finally by Hydra Head Records (double-CD release, the second CD containing further rare material, 2008). The record is rumored to have influenced at least one suicide.
Nortt / Xasthur is a split album by the American one man band Xasthur and the Danish one man band Nortt. This split album was re-issued on CD and LP by Southern Lord Records with different artwork. The LP version is limited to 1000 copies: 300 on clear vinyl and 700 on black vinyl.
The Rebirth of the Middle Ages is the first EP, third overall album, by the black metal band Godkiller. It is the first of their albums to be released on Wounded Love Records. It was released in 1996.
Vertebrae is the tenth studio album release by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released on 29 September 2008 via Indie Recordings in Europe and on 28 October 2008 via Nuclear Blast in the US, Enslaved's first album on both labels. It was named as Album of the Year by Terrorizer. The album sold approximately 1,100 copies in its first week in the United States, reaching number 49 on the Billboard Top Heatseekers chart.
In Harmonia Universali is the fourth studio album by Norwegian avant-garde metal band Solefald. It was released on 24 March 2003, and their last record released under the Century Media label. The album features lyrics sung in four languages: English, Norwegian, French and German.
Pills Against the Ageless Ills is the third studio album by Norwegian avant-garde metal band Solefald. It was released on 19 September 2001, and is their first album under the Century Media label. It is a concept album, following the story of two brothers, Philosopher Fuck and Pornographer Cain.
Ugra-Karma is the second full-length album by Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. It was originally released on December 1, 1993 via Osmose Productions, and re-released in 1998 with two bonus tracks (taken from the Satanic Masowhore EP) and a different cover art, because the original one was taken without permission from a work by Madame Koslovsky; Osmose was sued because of that. ""Ugra-Karma"" is a term in Sanskrit that denotes a bad, harmful action.
Road to the Octagon is the eleventh full-length studio album from Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. It was released, as are all of their albums thus far, on Osmose Productions in 2010. It also marked the first time that they were without a co-producer (Tapio Penannen co-produced their last few).
Roads to Judah is the debut studio album by the American blackgaze band Deafheaven. The album was released by Deathwish Inc. on April 26, 2011. Roads to Judah was recorded in four days between December 2010 and January 2011.
Noregs vaapen is the fifth full-length album, and 12th release from Norwegian black metal band Taake.
Years Past Matter is the fourth studio album by American black metal band Krallice. It was self-released by the band as a limited edition CD on August 25, 2012. A vinyl version of the album was subsequently released by Gilead Media on March 19, 2013.
The untitled demo EP by the American black metal band Deafheaven was self-released by the band on June 1, 2010. A remastered edition was released in 2012 through Sargent House.
Isa is the eighth full-length studio album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. Several tracks segue continuously into one another and the majority of compositions are composed of multiple interlocking movements.
Konkurs (English: Bankruptcy) is the third full-length album by Swedish black metal band Lifelover. The limited edition version includes with a poster of the band, a Lifelover sticker and the re-release of the first demo (on pro-printed CD-r) limited to 100 copies.
Leviathan / Xasthur is a split album with music from the black metal bands Xasthur and Leviathan on it. Tracks 1 through 7 were performed by Xasthur. Tracks 8 through 10 were performed by Leviathan.
Songs of Yore is the fifth studio album by the worldwide musical project Folkearth. It is Folkearth's first acoustic album. Many acoustic instruments were used for the recordings. some instruments used were acoustic guitars, cellos, celtic harps, violins, accordions, whistles, flutes, bodrans, mandolins, banjos, clarinets, galician bagpipes, soprano recorders, and recorders.
The Apocalypse Manifesto is the third album by the Belgian black metal group Enthroned, released in 1999. There is one track missing on the first 2000 copies of this album (""Post-mortem Penetrations : Messes des Saintes Mortes"").
Towards the Skullthrone of Satan is the second album from the Belgian black metal band, Enthroned. The front cover was created by Kris Verwimp. Layout by Enthroned and Blackend Prod. Initial Drumming concepts on this album were made by Cernunnos.
All Reflections Drained is the seventh studio album by American black metal act Xasthur. It is available in an A5 Digipack with a Bonus Disc of songs ""Experimenting in between the chapters"" and as a limited edition cassette that includes pins and a patch (limited to 500 copies).
Nattferd (in English Night Travel) is the debut album by Norwegian black metal band Ragnarok, released in 1995 under Head Not Found.
We the Fallen is the fourth studio album by American band Psyclon Nine. The album was released on September 8, 2009 through Metropolis Records. This is the first album released by Psyclon Nine with new members Vlixx and Jon Siren. The concept behind We the Fallen created by frontman Nero Bellum was the idea of himself as a ""heartworm"". Bellum had begun to ""look at people like emotional parasites, worming their way into the hearts of their victims in order to have some sort of influence on their actions."" The album takes a dark view on the concept of love and relationships.
Stagefright is the second album released by the British heavy metal band Witchfynde. The album was released in October 1980 by Rondelet Records and re-released in 2005 by Lemon Recordings.
New Bermuda is the third studio album by American blackgaze band Deafheaven. It was released on October 2, 2015 through ANTI- record label.
Gnostikoi Ha-Shaitan is the first studio album by Finnish black metal band Saturnian Mist. It was recorded at three locations, Watercastle Studios, Desolate Star Studios and Ordo Templi Keliokis, during December 2010 - February 2011. The title is combination of Hebrew and Ancient Greek and it loosely translates: ""Those who are able to know the adversity"". According to Metal Rules interview of the band's vocalist Zetekh ""Adversity"" refers here to an archetype of the Devil and ""Gnostikoi"" means ""Those who are able to know"", derivative from the works of Plato and the term Gnosis. A music video was made from the album, from the track ”Aura Mystica” which was also serving as a directorial debut of Zetekh.
Ur Nattvindar (English: From Night Woods) is the second demo album by the Viking metal band Månegarm. It was recorded in 1997. This album and the band's first demo album, Vargaresa, were combined for the compilation album Vargaresa – The Beginning.
Vargaresa is the first demo album by the Viking metal band Månegarm. It was recorded in 1996. This album and the band's second demo album, Ur Nattvindar, were combined for the compilation album, Vargaresa – The Beginning.
20 Years of Noise 1985–2005 is a compilation album of the Italian Extreme Metal band Necrodeath. The last four songs were taken from The Shining Pentagram demo.
Estrangement (Ukrainian: Відчуженість, Vidchuzhenist) is the sixth album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released in August 2007 (see 2007 in music). The album was previously known under the title River of Tears, but then had a name change. Its songs have a minimalistic influence and also features the band's first prominent use of blast beats since The Swan Road. All the lyrics of the album are based on the 1931–1932 works of the Ukrainian poet Oleh Olzhych. A spoken introduction in the first track is taken from the 1995 Ukrainian feature film Atentat about the life and assassination of Stepan Bandera, and says in Ukrainian, ""We shall always be there"" (taken from a scene in the film when former soldiers of the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, having escaped from the Soviet prosecution after the end of World War II, arrive in the USA as immigrants; meaning in the context that the hearts of the Ukrainian patriots shall remain forever in the occupied Ukraine). In 2010, it was re-released as digipak with new artwork and re-mastered sound by Season of Mist.
Give 'em Hell is the debut album by the British heavy metal band Witchfynde. The album was released in 1980 during the new wave of British heavy metal heyday and re-released in 2004 by Lemon Recordings. The 2004 re-release featured three bonus tracks (""The Devil's Gallop"", ""Tetelestai"", and ""Wake Up Screaming""). The album has often been cited as a relevant example for the production of the NWOBHM scene and as an inspiration for the black metal subgenre.
Live at Roadburn 2008 is the first live album by French post-metal band Year of No Light. It was released in August 2009 on LP+DVD, and reissued later on CD in April 2011.
Below the Lights is the seventh full-length album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. Beyond it being their last full-length for Osmose (they would move to Candlelight for their next album, Isa), a few lineup changes would take place. This would be the last album Enslaved recorded with Dirge Rep on drums (he also co-wrote two songs); Cato Bekkevold would join in time for the recording of ""Isa"". They would also enlist a full-time keyboardist in Herbrand Larsen (who helped engineer the record), bringing the band personnel from four to five.
Blodhemn is the fourth studio album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released in 1998, through Osmose Productions.
Hordanes Land is the debut EP by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released on May 1993, through Candlelight Records, and was also released as a split album a few weeks later with Emperor's self-titled EP. It was a key release in the development of Viking metal.
Hünengrab im Herbst is the first studio album by German black metal band Nagelfar. It was recorded in Andy Classen's Stage-One-Studio in September 1997 and was released via Kettenhund Records in December 1997.
Mardraum – Beyond the Within is the fifth studio album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved.
Monumension is the sixth studio album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released on 27 November 2001, through Osmose Productions. It is Enslaved's first album feature lyrics sung entirely in English, although some versions of the album include the Old Norse track ""Sigmundskvadet"" as a bonus. Monumension was the last Enslaved album to feature guitarist R. Kronheim; Arve Isdal would replace him on Below the Lights.
Srontgorrth: Die Macht erfaßte das meine wie die Angst das Blut der anderen (lit. ""Power seized mine [my blood] like fear [seized] the blood of the others"") is the second studio album by German black metal band Nagelfar, released in 1999. Srontgorrth is a loose concept album, with the first four tracks focusing on the four seasons. The riff introduced at the beginning of the first piece is reprised at some point in every track on the album. The first three tracks had previously appeared on the band's first two demos and first album, respectively, but were re-recorded for this release. The fourth track is performed featuring no guitars whatsoever. Most likely because more than half of the songs are re-recordings of previously released material, the band themselves do not consider Srontgorrth as an album, referring instead to their next album, Virus West, as their second album.
Vikingligr Veldi (Icelandic meaning roughly Glorious Viking Square) is the debut studio album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released in 1994, through Deathlike Silence Productions, the record label run by Euronymous, who was killed before the album's release. The album is dedicated to him. Despite Enslaved's nationality, the lyrics on this album are mainly in Icelandic, perhaps due to its resemblance to Old Norse. The lyrics of ""Heimdallr"" are in ancient Norwegian. The distinct cover features the grave-good helm uncovered at the Sutton Hoo site in England, ostensibly belonging to the 7th century bretwalda, Raedwald of East Anglia. Ivar Bjørnson (born November 27, 1977) was only 15 when Vikingligr Veldi was recorded.
Virus West is German black metal band Nagelfar's third and last album before they broke up. The album was recorded in June 2000 in Andy Classen's Stage-One-Studio. The track ""Hellebarn"" contains a sample from the 1982 film The Thing.
666 International is the third full-length album by Norwegian black metal band Dødheimsgard. It was released on June 11, 1999, by Moonfog Productions. With 666 International, Dødheimsgard abandoned the black metal style of their previous two albums, further developing the style of their EP Satanic Art (1998). The album heads into a more avant-garde style that fuses black and industrial metal, with some electronic and keyboard interludes. 666 International was Dødheimsgard's last release to feature Aldrahn on vocals (until his eventual return to the band in 2013, when the band recorded A Umbra Omega with him), Apollyon on bass, and Svein Egil Hatlevik on keyboards. It was also their last release under the name Dødheimsgard; in 2003, the band shortened their name to DHG. The piano intro on ""Shiva-Interfere"" is taken from the outro track ""Wrapped in Plastic"" from Satanic Art. It was re-released in 2011 by Peaceville Records, and included two bonus tracks. ""Hæmorrhage Era One Reconstructed"" was originally featured on the 2000 compilation Moonfog 2000: A Different Perspective.
Ancient God of Evil is the second studio album by the Swedish melodic death metal band Unanimated which was released on March 1, 1995 through No Fashion Records.
Banished Rhythmic Hate is the second and last studio album by Viking Crown. It was released on November 13, 2001. This album was also released in a two CD set alongside the Necrophagia EP Cannibal Holocaust.
In the Forest of the Dreaming Dead is the debut studio album by the Swedish melodic death metal band Unanimated.
Innocence from Hell is the first studio album by Viking Crown and was released April 11th, 2000.
Kronet Til Konge (Norwegian for ""Crowned To Be King"") is the debut studio album by Norwegian black metal band Dødheimsgard. It was released in 1995, through Malicious Records. Kronet Til Konge was re-released in 1999 on Century Media Records.
Return to Yggdrasill, in addition to being a song off the band's 2004 Isa album, is also a 2005 DVD release by the Norwegian metal band Enslaved, consisting primarily of concert footage recorded in Bergen, Norway. The material on this set focuses primarily on songs from the preceding album, Isa.
Ruun is the ninth full-length album by Norwegian black metal band Enslaved. It was released on May 2, 2006. It was given Norway's 2006 Spellemann award for best achievement in the 'Metal' genre.
Satanic Art is an EP by Norwegian black metal band Dødheimsgard. It was released in May 1998, by Moonfog Productions. Satanic Art marks the beginning of Dødheimsgard's transition from black metal to a more industrial/avant-garde sound, which was not fully realized until their next album, 666 International (1999). It was Dødheimsgard's first release to feature Svein Egil Hatlevik (Fleurety) on keyboards, their only one to feature Galder (Dimmu Borgir, Old Man's Child) on guitars and the last to feature Cerberus on bass. The samples used in the songs ""Traces of Reality"" and ""Wrapped in Plastic"" are both taken from the TV series Twin Peaks.
Since the Day It All Came Down is the second full-length studio album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Insomnium.
Hermeticum is the only album released by the Portuguese black metal band Dæmonarch, a side project of Moonspell members. It was recorded at Inferno-Studios and released in August 1998. The band used a drum machine on this album. ""Hymn to Lucifer"" was a Moonspell song that was never released, but was played at early Moonspell shows.
In the Halls of Awaiting is the debut album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Insomnium. It was released on April 30, 2002 through Candlelight Records.
Memoria Vetusta I – Fathers of the Icy Age is the second studio album by black metal band Blut Aus Nord, and currently the only one with released lyrics. The album was first released in 1996 by Impure Creations Records. The album was later reissued in 2005 by Candlelight Records with new artwork, and on vinyl on April 20, 2012 through Debemur Morti Productions, again featuring brand new artwork by Valnoir of Metastazis.
The Mystical Beast of Rebellion is the 3rd studio album by black metal band Blut Aus Nord. An expanded double-LP version with new material was released in December 2010; a 2-CD version with the new material followed shortly thereafter.
The Work Which Transforms God is the fourth studio album by black metal band Blut Aus Nord. It was first released on March 17, 2003 through Please Me Records. It was reissued the following year on Candlelight Records with new artwork, and again in 2005 in a version that included the EP Thematic Emanation of Archetypal Multiplicity as a second disc. It was also reissued on CD and vinyl by Debemur Morti Productions on June 21, 2013 featuring new artwork by Valnoir and Dehn Sora. This reissue also featured a cover of Godflesh's song 'Mighty Trust Krusher', originally only available on the 2003 ""Godflesh: Tribute"" compilation by Nihilistic Holocaust.
Decade Of Decadence is a compilation album by Finnish extreme metal band Impaled Nazarene, and it was released in year 2000, declaring band's 10-year career. It features songs from the band's early material.
Latex Cult is the fourth full-length album by Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. A music video was made for ""1999: Karmakeddon Warriors"".
Suomi Finland Perkele is the third full-length album by Impaled Nazarene, the last to feature both Luttinen brothers. It is infamous due to its nationalistic themes; for example, in the lyrics to ""Total War - Winter War"". ""Suomi"" is the Finnish word for Finland and ""Perkele"" is a common Finnish swear word.Three versions of the sleeve exist: gold on black (OPCD 026-A), black on gold (OPCD 026-B) and black on silver (OPCD 026-C).
Black Millenium (Grimly Reborn) was Mütiilation's comeback (song) album. After being away since 1995 (excluding the compilation of unreleased material by Drakkar Productions in 1999), Meyhna'ch was ""resurrected"" for the reason of ""not being buried yet"". His dead body continued to create music and to release it.This album was officially rereleased in 2010 by Dark Adversary Productions (Australia).
Hail Satanas We Are The Black Legions was the first studio recording by Mütiilation, a one-man French heavy metal music project. The recording pays a direct homage to The Black Legions, which Mütiilation had just joined. It was issued as a 7"" vinyl EP (33 1⁄3-rpm).
Majestas Leprosus was an album by Mütiilation. The CD version was pressed twice. Only the second version features lyrics inside the booklet. The album is split into three parts, each containing three songs: 1.  
* ""From the Evil Vortex..."" 2.  
* ""Predominance of Belzebuth"" 3.  
* ""...To the Suicidal Void""
New False Prophet was Mütiilation's first release of new material since being expelled from The Black Legions. It was released as a 7"" vinyl EP in an edition of 300 numbered copies.
Rattenkönig was the 2005 full-length (or LP) release by Mütiilation. The title is a Germanic folkloric tale of rats being attached by the ends of their tails.
Remains of a Ruined, Dead, Cursed Soul is a compilation album by the French black metal band Mütiilation. It was the first material to be released in four years, and since the expulsion of The Black Legions. It compiles songs taken from the demo Evil - The Gestalt of Abomination, which was recorded in 1993, but never available to the public, and songs recorded after the release of Vampires of Black Imperial Blood, in 1996. In the liner notes of the release, Meyhna'ch explains he has died due to the lack of competence in the then scene of black metal.This album was officially re-released in 2010 by Dark Adversary Productions (Australia).
Supervillain Outcast is the fourth full-length album by Norwegian black metal band Dødheimsgard, now under the moniker DHG. It was released on March 26, 2007, by Moonfog Productions. It was their only release to feature Kvohst on vocals, who replaced Aldrahn after he left the band in 2004. With this album, the band continues the avant-garde/black metal fusion sound they undertook on their previous album, 666 International; however, the industrial-esque style that was preponderant on 666 International is toned down in order to focus more on the electronic interludes, in a style closer to DHG's EP Satanic Art (1998). Carl-Michael Eide recorded the drums for the album prior to an accident that left his legs paralyzed. A double-disc deluxe edition of Supervillain Outcast was released by Peaceville Records in 2012. The extra disc contained seven previously unreleased instrumental tracks; ""Senseoffender"" is an outtake from the album, and the following six tracks are from a 2003 rehearsal. The track ""Ghostforce Soul Constrictor"" was the last track former member Aldrahn wrote during his period in DHG. He briefly returns on this album, providing additional vocals for the tracks ""Foe vs. Foe"" and ""Ghostforce Soul Constrictor"".
Vampires of Black Imperial Blood was Mütiilation's and The Black Legions first full-length album. It was also the first full-length CD publication from Drakkar Productions, a French record label freshly established in 1994 by fellow musician Noktu (frontman of Celestia).
100% Hell is the sixth album of the Italian Extreme Metal band Necrodeath. Cronos of Venom is the guest vocalist on February 5, 1984, Federica Badalini of Soul Takers plays keyboards on Identity Crisis, Sonya Scarlet of Theatres des Vampires make a duet with Flegias on 100% Hell.
Absence of War Does Not Mean Peace is the seventh full-length release by Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. The release was recorded at Anssi Kippo's Astia Studio from July to August, 2001. A music video was made for Hardboiled and Still Hellbound, featuring former Finnish porn star Rakel Liekki.
All That You Fear is the eighth full-length release by Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. The release was recorded at Anssi Kippo’s Astia-studio in July 2003. The sixth song of the album, “Suffer In Silence”, is dedicated to the band’s late guitarist, Teemu “Somnium” Raimoranta who died from falling from a railroad bridge a year prior to the album’s release. A music video was created for “Armageddon Death Squad.”
Black as Pitch is the fourth studio album of the Italian extreme metal band Necrodeath.
Drakkars in the Mist is the third album by the musical project Folkearth.
Fragments of Insanity is the second studio album of the Italian Extreme Metal band Necrodeath.
Into the Macabre is the debut album of the Italian Extreme Metal band Necrodeath.
Mater of All Evil is the third studio album of the Italian extreme metal band Necrodeath.
Ton(e)s of Hate is the fifth studio album of the Italian Extreme Metal band Necrodeath.
By the Blessing of Satan is the second full-length album by black metal band Behexen.
Rituale Satanum is the first full length album by the Finnish black metal band Behexen. Its title is a mockery of the religious text of the Catholic faith, Rituale Romanum. Remastered & re-released in 2004 (with new artwork) by Dynamic Arts Records. LP released by Faustian Distribution & Northern Heritage in June 2006.
RIITIIR, occasionally typeset as ""RIITIIЯ,"" is the twelfth studio album from the Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released on September 28, 2012 in Europe and on October 9, 2012 in North America. The name RIITIIR is Ivar Bjørnson's ""Norse-ified"" take on the words ""Rites/Rituals"", or ""The Rites of Man"".
Ausserwelt is the second studio album by French band Year of No Light, released in 2010. It was originally released by Conspiracy Records (CD) & Music Fear Satan (2xLP).
Chaos & Warfare is a split album between the bands Kekal, from Indonesia, and Slechtvalk, from the Netherlands, released in 2002 through Fear Dark Records. Critical reception of the album was fairly positive, though Kekal’s side of the release drew some criticism from reviewers. In particular, the band's use of clean vocals was viewed negatively by HM Magazine writer Matt Morrow, who suggested that the band should have stuck to a solely black metal vocal style. Morrow also leveled heavy criticism at the song ""A Stranger So Close"". However, some parts of Kekal's material received praise. The song ""Mean Attraction"" from the band’s previous release, The Painful Experience was called a ""hit,"" and Morrow said that as that song was the best on The Painful Experience, he did not mind it on this release. Morrow also expressed admiration over Kekal's ""emotional"" and ""passionate"" cover of the Trouble song ""The Skull"". Overall, Morrow stated that Kekal was very talented, but held back somewhat by its experimentation. Michiel de Rooij of Lords of Metal praised the tracks ""The Only Sound of Rain"" and ""A Stranger So Close"", but found ""Mean Attraction"" boring and hated the band's cover of ""The Skull"", as he already disliked Trouble and though the song was performed by a different band he could still not appreciate it. Slechtvalk's performance was highly praised by Morrow, who stated that he was anticipating the release of the album because of this band's appearance. He did direct some criticism at the first song, ""Whispers in the Dark"", for using a drum machine, but said that the following three songs, with real drumming, left him speechless. Morrow noted the band’s cover of ""Kongsblood"", which was originally by Antestor, stating that Slechtvalk did a great job, but that he liked atmosphere of the original version by Antestor better. de Rooij he praised the song ""Whispers in the Dark"", but found that ""The Dragon's Children"" and ""Storms"" were not of the same quality. ""Storms"" in particular he considered rushed and unoriginal, though not a bad song. ""Kongsblood"" he lavished with praise, considering it the best on the entire split and writing ""I've just listened to it tree [sic] times to obtain a good impression…. and I think I'm going to listen to it once more."" In an interview with Art for the Ears, Slechtvalk founder Shamgar said that while he liked his song ""Storms"" from the release, he prefers the material found on The War That Plagues the Lands, Slechtvalk's follow-up album. Overall, Matt Morrow gave the album nine out of ten possible points. Michiel de Rooij rated the split sixty-three out of one hundred. Promonex, a staff reviewer from Metal Storm, graded the entire album eight out of ten points. Stylistically, Slechtvalk played black metal for most of the album, with ""The Dragon's Children"" described as a ""brutal, pure black metal song"" without any keyboards, while the song ""Storms"" delved into a symphonic black metal style using extremely fast blasting and a mixture of black and death metal vocals.
Demo 2004 is the demo album by French post-metal band Year of No Light, released in 2004. It was originally released on a limited edition CDR (150 copies) on Radar Swarm. Most of the songs were later re-recorded for the band's first album, Nord.
Karysun / Year of No Light is a split EP between the French sludge stoner band Karysun and the French sludge gaze band Year of No Light.
Memoria Vetusta III - Saturnian Poetry is the eleventh studio album by French avant-garde, black metal band Blut Aus Nord. It was released on October 10, 2014 through Debemur Morti Productions. This is the third and last album of the 'Memoria Vetusta' trilogy. The album cover was painted by Kristian ""Necrolord"" Wåhlin, famous for his work with black metal bands such as Emperor, Dissection, and Bathory, and the layout was provided by Dehn Sora. It is also the first full-length album by Blut Aus Nord to feature Thorns (Gionata Potenti) on drums. In addition to positive reviews by critics, the album was also listed by Rolling Stone as the 13th best metal album of 2014.
Ruines Humaines is the first EP and the very first release of the french band Amesoeurs. It was released in 2006. The album is dedicated to Ian Curtis and Joy Division which is not surprising considering the influent similarities in their sound and lyric themes.The album include the participation of Fursy Teyssier as the illustrator. Teyssier will later be one of the guitarist and bassist of the band for the next releases.Northern Silence Productions released a special digipak edition and also a rerelease on 10"" vinyl on March 23, 2007.
A Umbra Omega is the fifth full-length album by Norwegian black metal band Dødheimsgard, also known as DHG. It was released on March 16, 2015, by Peaceville Records.
Epistemology is the sixth studio album by the Norwegian extreme metal band Keep of Kalessin, released on February 16, 2015, through Indie.
Hordalands doedskvad (English: Death poems of Hordaland) is the third full-length album from Norwegian black metal band Taake. It was released on February 28th, 2005.
Erdenkraft is the fourth album by the German folk/black/viking metal band, Adorned Brood. It was released on 22 March 2002.
Hiltia is the debut album by the German folk/black metal band Adorned Brood. It was released the March 1, 1996 on Folter Records.
Abyssal Throne is an EP by the Canadian technical death metal band Sympathy, released in 2005 on the Norwegian label Momentum Scandinavia. The EP was released in a strictly limited edition of only 850 with an 8-page, 5-colour booklet with gold print. The EP features several guest appearances: vocals by Matt Knowles of Royal Anguish on ""Insipid"", and additional lead guitar work by Dustin Olson, Tim Roth (Into Eternity) and Rob Doherty (Into Eternity). The EP features an intro and 5 songs, of which 2 are new, ""Insipid"" and ""Ascendency"", and 2 are re-recorded versions from Invocation, ""Immolation of the Dragon"" and ""Occupy"". The last song, ""Torn into Enthrallment"" is a Suffocation cover from the 1995 album Pierced from Within. The cover artwork was designed by Samuel Durling, a reputive Swedish graphic designer. The EP received good reviews, and the critics considered the Ep an improvement over the style of Arcane Path, being more extreme technical death/black metal.
Arcane Path is the second studio album by the Canadian technical death metal band Sympathy, released in 2004 on the Dutch label Fear Dark. This album features guest appearances by Tim Roth and Rob Doherty, both members of the fellow Canadian metal band Into Eternity. The album features an improved production over Invocation. The style is not as technical as on the previous album, but leans more towards blackened death metal style while still keeping the chaotic soundscapes, wall of sound avalanches and virtuoisic lead guitar techniques. Arcane Path is a concept album of a protagonist's inner struggles. The cover art was painted by the Belgian (Flemish) artist Kris Verwimp who has done work for groups such as Marduk. ""Realm of Disease"" is a re-recorded song from Invocation. ""The Red League"" features female vocals by ""Angel"". The album received an enthusiastic reception, and several online magazines recognized Arcane Path as one the metal albums of the year.
Hyperion is the second EP by the American black metal band Krallice. It was released on January 1, 2016, though the music was originally recorded in July 2013 for a split release that never materialised.
You, Whom I Have Always Hated is a collaborative album by American sludge metal bands The Body and Thou. Released on January 27, 2015 through Thrill Jockey record label, the album was included on the reissue of bands' first collaborative effort, Released from Love EP (2014).
The discography of the Indonesian band Kekal includes nine full-length studio albums, two EPs, two compilation albums, two demo tapes, a split album with Slechtvalk, and several contributions to various collaborative albums. Though the band currently has no active members, it continues to exist as an institution, and still releases new material. Kekal formed in 1995 in Jakarta, Indonesia, and released an unofficial four-song demo tape. As this demo began to circulate, additional members joined to release an official demo album called Contra Spiritualia Nequitae in 1996, and in 1998 Kekal released its self-produced debut album, Beyond the Glimpse of Dreams, which gained the band international attention. The following year, 1999, the band released Embrace the Dead, followed by The Painful Experience in 2001. The departure of guitarist Leo Setiawan in 2001 left the band as a duo consisting of Jeff Arwadi and Azhar Levi Sianturi, but the band continued and released the highly progressive and experimental 1000 Thoughts of Violence in 2003, which led to a two-week European mini-tour in March 2004. Upon return to Indonesia, Kekal recorded Acidity, which was released in 2005, and marked the return of Leo to the band. This album was considered by many to be the band's strongest release to date, and The Habit of Fire was recorded in 2006. However, Jeff's relocation to Canada left the status of the band in question, but it was decided to keep the band as a studio project, and The Habit of Fire was released in 2007, and was named ""CD of the Month"" by technology magazine Sound on Sound. In 2008, the band's seventh full-length album, Audible Minority, was intended to be released on December 25, 2008 as both a digital free download and a limited edition Digipak with a total of 11 songs. The CD version was never released, and the album ended up being offered only as a free download instead. In 2009, all band members left Kekal, but it was decided to keep the band simply as a legal institution. Despite this, former members of the band contributed to an eighth studio album, entitled 8, which was officially released in December 2010 and was made available to purchase on January 23, 2011. On July 10, 2011, a free digital-only EP entitled Futuride was released, and an ninth full-length release, Autonomy, was released in December 19, 2012.
The Age of Fear is the ninth studio album of Italian thrash metal band Necrodeath. It was released in May 2011 by the label Scarlet Records.
Amesoeurs (Soulmates) is the sole album by the band of the same name. It was released in 2009, just before the band broke up. Northern Silence Productions released a special limited LP edition of the album in three different versions: the ""Metallic Century"" edition, limited to 333 copies, the ""Cold Light"" edition limited to 333 copies, and the ""Night Sky"" edition limited to 222 copies, which all come with exclusive bonus tracks.
Between Two Worlds is the debut album by Norwegian black metal and thrash metal supergroup I. The album was recorded at the Lydriket Studio and later mixed by Peter Tägtgren at the Abyss studio. The album showcases Abbath's straightforward metal style rather than his black metal style. The album displays a clear influence from classic metal bands, which although present in Abbath's primary band Immortal, is here the sole focus of the music. A limited edition digipack was released, which includes three bonus tracks. A limited edition metal box was also released, also featuring the three bonus tracks, and was limited to 1000 copies.
Through Times of War is the first studio album by Norwegian black metal band Keep of Kalessin. The album shows a combination of fast, dark and epic black metal. The band went on to embrace more elements from the thrash metal genre, receiving even more widespread appeal. It was originally released through Avantgarde Music, but was re-released through several others. It was re-released through World War III in 2002, by Avantgarde Music a second time in 2006 and by Snapper that same year. Peaceville Records is known to re-release this album as a digipak in 2007.
To Violate the Oblivious is a 2004 album by the American one-man black metal act Xasthur. After the original release on Swedish Total Holocaust Records, a re-mastered US pressing was released on Moribund Records in 2005 (featuring one bonus track). The same year, a limited double-vinyl edition was released on German label Perverted Taste (with yet another bonus track).
8 is the eighth full-length studio album by Indonesian experimental metal band Kekal, announced on 23 June 2010, and made available for purchase on 23 January 2011. While the band has no officially active members, former members Jeff, Leo, and Levi all contributed to the album. The album was set to be released by Whirlwind Records during December 2010, on CD and as a digital download, and on 15 December 2010, the album was available for pre-order, which included an offer of free shipping within Europe up to December 24. On 19 February 2010, Jeff announced that he had posted a music video on YouTube for a song titled ""Tabula Rasa"". At that time, the new album was still untitled. On 24 March 2011, it was announced that ""Tabula Rasa"" was included on a compilation/sampler album by the Sonic Seducer magazine. Metal Hammer Germany commented that the album was far from the early black metal days of the band, and gave the album a rating of 4 out of 7.
Purify is a mini album released by the Canadian death metal band Axis of Advance in January 2006.
MoRT (an acronym for ""Metamorphosis of Realistic Theories""; Mort is also the French word for death) is an avant-garde metal album by French black metal band Blut Aus Nord, released in 2006.
Invocation is the 2002 debut album by the Canadian technical death metal band Sympathy. The album was published by Fear Dark, a Dutch record label. Although suffering from low production values, the album got positive feedback in underground metal circles and magazines such as BW & BK and was mentioned in Metal Maniacs magazine as one of the reader's albums of the year for 2002. Noted for solid songwriting, Sympathy has since re-recorded several of the album's songs with better production. The music features deep growling, occasional shrieking, heavily-distorted guitar sound, plenty of tempo-changes and atonal riffs, some symphonic keyboards and computer drums. ""Prelude and Toccata in e Minor"" is a piano instrumental, and ""Christus Factus Est"" features operatic female vocals. The album cover was done by Jeffray Arwadi of Soundmind Graphics, also known as the guitarist/vocalist for the Indonesian avant-garde metal band Kekal.
Pro Patria Finlandia is Impaled Nazarene's ninth full-length studio album. It was released on Osmose Productions in 2006.
Eternal Emperor is Crimson Moonlight's first EP. It was released in 1998 and introduced a more polished output that focuses on keyboard-driven symphonic black metal.
Father of Victory is the fourth studio album by the international folk metal project Folkearth, released in December. Its name comes from an epitaph of Odin (Father of Victory).
Gloomy Lights is the first full album of the Japanese metal band Gallhammer.
Ill Innocence is the second full album of the Japanese band Gallhammer. It was released in 2007, and helped secure the band's recognition within the extreme metal subculture.
In Depths of Dreams Unconscious is an EP by the Swedish death/black metal group Crimson Moonlight, released in 2007 on Endtime Productions.
La Sanie des siècles – Panégyrique de la dégénérescence (which roughly translates as ""The sanies of the centuries – Ode to degeneration"", ""sanies"" being ""a thin greenish foul-smelling discharge from a wound, ulcer, etc., containing pus and blood"" according to the Collins English Dictionary) is the debut album by French black metal band Peste Noire. The majority of the album is based on tracks which were previously featured on Peste Noire demos (all written and recorded by La sale Famine de Valfunde on his own equipment). For La Sanie des siècles – Panégyrique de la dégénérescence these demo tracks were rerecorded in Rosenkrantz studio with a full line-up (Indria as bassist and Winterhalter as drummer) Famine had recruited. This album still features the same raw sound of Peste Noire’s demos, but was substantially cleaned up in terms of listenability. The music still falls into the category of black metal, but manages to go above and beyond this label through sprawling tracks that maintain their momentum over the course of 5 to 11 minutes. Famine also used a lot of samples in his music – taken from a variety of sources – in order to construct the twisted, mysterious atmosphere that the final product holds. Also still in place are Famine’s guitar work. Neige, who was PN's session drummer on the demos, was no longer a member of Peste Noire when La Sanie des siècles was recorded, however he was featured on ""Nous sommes fanés"" and ""Des médecins malades et des saints séquestrés"" as a session drummer (only), because basically these two songs are old demo tracks which were not rerecorded in the studio session for La Sanie des siècles. They are bonus tracks, present in their demo version on the album. Famine put things straight when he stated: ""The most absurd idea spread by idiots is that La Sanie des siècles is better because Neige was more involved in its recording and production, yet the fact is that the album was recorded without Neige, in 2005, when I had kicked him out of the band. Neige never had any influence on my music in the slightest way possible; I write everything and I tell people what they must do over MY riffs. This was exactly what happened with Neige, ask him! [...] To claim that Neige is an important figure in PN is the same as saying that the person who plays the triangle in SOPOR AETERNUS AND THE ENSEMBLE OF SHADOWS is the main man in SOPOR."" PN plays a guitar-based style of black metal, which incorporates highly varied songwriting. The riffing and leads have a melodic tinge to them and there is an underlying dark, melancholic feel throughout the album. Due to its incorporation of organ, folk-based guitars, unusual riffs, guitar solos and the use of multiple different types of black metal vocals, La Sanie des siècles – Panégyrique de la dégénérescence received much critical acclaim from both fans and press alike. Their concept of ""turning mud into gold"" is showcased in Famine's interview featured in the album's booklet and is materialized by the musicianship of Famine (guitars), Winterhalter (drums), and Indria (bass). In this French-language interview, Famine says Black Metal is all about turning the ugly, the disgusting and the horrible into something beautiful. The 2007 follow-up album Folkfuck Folie will show the consolidation and the deepening of this concept. According to Famine, the overall themes running through La Sanie des siècles are ""a parallel between mediaeval and modern apocalypse; the decline of the current world and the desire to see it die out since it cannot be saved; vengeance and the fantasized return of our Own (our Own: a fallen nobility socially, psychically and physiologically humiliated). Annihilating the world which has annihilated us. It invites people to do so."" All the songs, lyrics and solos on La Sanie des siècles – Panégyrique de la dégénérescence were written by La sale Famine de Valfunde exclusively except lyrics of ""Le mort joyeux"" and ""Spleen"" by Charles Baudelaire and ""Dueil Angoisseus"" by Christine de Pizan. All artwork and concept imagined by La sale Famine de Valfunde. This record was limited to 2,000 pieces during its first cycle of pressing but quickly sold-out due to the growth in the band's fanbase, in 2008 it was repressed by Transcendental Creations. A limited vinyl version co-produced by De profundis éditions and Finnish label Ahdistuksen Aihio Productions was released in August 2009.
Muanpiällinen Helevetti (""Hell on Earth"") is the debut album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Verjnuarmu.
Songs from the Archives is Crimson Moonlight's first compilation album. Tracks 1–5 are taken from the Eternal Emperor EP, tracks 15–18 are taken from a 2001 demo, and tracks 19–20 are taken from The Covenant Progress. The version of ""A Thorn in My Heart"" that appears on this album is an older version that was rearranged for release on The Covenant Progress.
The Covenant Progress is the first full-length album by the Swedish group Crimson Moonlight. The album was released in 2003 on Rivel Records. In 2010, HM Magazine ranked it #52 on the Top 100 Christian metal albums of all time list with Beck stating that it is ""Well-produced symphonic black metal that rivals the best any other band (Christian or secular) in this subgenre can offer.""
Veil of Remembrance is the second full-length album by the Swedish group Crimson Moonlight. Veil of Remembrance was officially released on January 26, 2005 although it was already available since December 4, 2004.
Anima Noir is the eighth studio album by the Italian gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires.
Black Metal Sacrifice is the second release by the black metal band Watain. It was recorded on their concert with Malign and Dark Funeral in Uppsala in 1999, organised by Watain and Grim Rune Productions. The live tape was originally ""mostly spread among the closest ones"" and re-released on CD format in 2007. ""Sons of Fucking Hell"" is a cover of Bloodsoil, ""the very unknown band"" vocalist Erik Danielsson ""played in for some years before Watain, and never released anything with"".
Casus Luciferi is the second studio album by the black metal band Watain. It was released in 2003 on Drakkar Productions. It was also released on limited edition vinyl by Norma Evangelium Diaboli and, in 2004, on tape by the Romanian label Mirgilus Siculorum. The album got a remaster and a re-release in October 2008 with a bonus track, a live cover of the song ""Watain"" by Von that the band is named after.
Crwn Thy Frnicatr is Psyclon Nine's third studio album, released on October 23, 2006 by US label, Metropolis Records, and on November 10, 2006 by German label, NoiTekk. On the cover of the album, are the words ""All those who stand before me shall be judged.""
Devilry is an EP by the Swedish black metal band Funeral Mist. It was released in 1998.
Divine Infekt is Psyclon Nine's first studio album, released on September 15, 2003 by NoiTekk.
Kolossus is Keep of Kalessin's fourth studio album. It was released on June 6, 2008, in Europe and on June 10 in the U.S. A limited edition deluxe digipak was released under Indie Recordings which contains a bonus DVD including interviews, behind-the-scenes material, the making of Kolossus, the live performance Come Damnation, Live in Paris 2006 and the Kolossus teaser.
Rabid Death's Curse is the first studio album by the black metal band Watain. It was released in 2000 on Drakkar Productions. It is notable as being the first and only album for which the band had two guitarists; from Rabid Death's Curse onwards, the band would be a trio. The song ""Rabid Death's Curse"" contains an audio sample from the film Friday the 13th. The album is considered a classic and was featured on German Rock Hard magazine's list 250 Black-Metal-Alben, die man kennen sollte ('250 black metal albums you should know').
Ruatokansan Uamunkoetto (""Dawn of the Dead"") is the second album by the Savo band Verjnuarmu.
Soul Metamorphosis is an EP by the Swedish extreme metal band In Battle.
The Essence of Black Purity is the third release by the black metal band Watain. It was released in 1999 on EP format on Grim Rune Records and was limited to 300 copies. Grim Rune website mentions that the EP ""got a generally good response in the underground circuits."" Similarly, Eduardo Rivadavia of Allmusic wrote that Watain ""quickly gain[ed] underground credibility"" with this ""uncompromising 7"" release"". When asked his opinion about Watain's older albums, vocalist Erik Danielsson said: ""I appreciate them for what they are, monuments of what we were before, pieces of evolution. The rehearsal demo was just a primitive attempt though, but the 7"" actually still makes me tremble at times. I accept it for being a debut release, yet I think that it's positive that it is not available anymore, since what we offer today is much closer to what we want Watain to be. I can be good to look back and remember at times, but now we are trying to focus on looking ahead on what's to come. One thing I really like about the 7"" is the lyric to the title track; it still means a lot to me."" When asked if there is a possibility of re-releasing their early albums, Danielsson commented: ""The old releases will stay what they are; monuments of the past, remembered by some, unnoticed by others. We do not intend to re-release any of these outputs, as we believe our new material is far more interesting. But who knows…"" Danielsson also considers the EP their first official release and regards the two tracks ""as magnificent pieces of black metal"".
The Ritual Macabre is the sixth release by the black metal band Watain. It is their second live album. The album was released in 2001 on Sakreligious Warfare Productions and was limited to 666 copies. ""Transilvanian Hunger"" is a cover of Darkthrone's song from the album of the same name.
Across the Dark is the fourth full-length studio album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Insomnium. It was released on 7 September 2009 on Candlelight Records. The album features Jules Näveri from Profane Omen and Enemy of the Sun as guest vocalist and Aleksi Munter from Swallow the Sun as guest keyboardist.The album was chosen as ""Album of the month September, 2009"" by German online magazine Metal 1.
Dekadens (English: Decadence) is the fourth release by Swedish black metal band Lifelover, which was released on 10 October 2009 by Osmose (MCD) and Elitmusik (MLP) Dekadens is also the band's only release with a human drummer, which is in opposition to the use of drum machines on every other Lifelover release.
The Older Ones is the first compilation album by Norwegian blackened death metal band Old Funeral, which was made up by key players in the Norwegian black metal scene, including bassist/vocalist Olve ""Abbath"" Eikemo (Immortal), guitarist Harald ""Demonaz"" Nævdal (Immortal) and guitarist Kristian ""Varg"" Vikernes (Burzum). By the time this album was released, the members had already gone their separate ways, with Immortal a going concern for Abbath and Varg in jail.
Shadows of the Dying Sun is the sixth studio album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Insomnium. It was released in North America on April 29th, 2014 via Century Media Records, and on April 25th in Finland, Germany, Austria, and Switzerland, the rest of Europe, as well as Australia and New Zealand on April 28th. It is their first album with new guitarist Markus Vanhala after previous long-time guitarist Ville Vänni departed in 2011. The song ""Revelation"", in the form of a lyric video, was released on March 21, 2014. A music video was made for the song and single ""While We Sleep"", which was released on April 7th, 2014. The last song, ""Black Heart Rebellion"" was released on April 22, 2014.
Vigorous and Liberating Death is the twelfth full-length studio album from Finnish black metal band Impaled Nazarene. It was released, as are all of their albums thus far, on Osmose Productions in April 14, 2014. The album is available on CD, gatefold LP and digital download. In an interview on Finnish radio channel Yle X3M, the band stated that the first demos for the album were done on late 2012 but the actual recording was delayed due to issues with their then-upcoming live DVD and its promotion tour. In the same interview, Luttinen told that the album's title and lyrical themes handle death from various viewpoints: the death of Finland's and European Union's economies, the death of freedom of speech among others.
777 – Cosmosophy is the tenth full-length album by French black metal band Blut Aus Nord. It was released on September 21, 2012 through Debemur Morti Productions. This is the third and final album of the 777 trilogy that begin with the 2011 album '777 – Sect(s)'. The album was recorded, mixed, and mastered at Earthsound Recording in 2012 and the artwork was created by Dehn Sora in collaboration with Metastazis Studios.
777 – Sect(s) is the eighth full-length album by French Black Metal band Blut Aus Nord. The album was released on April 18, 2011 through Debemur Morti Productions. It is the first album in the '777' trilogy, with the others being called 777 – The Desanctification and 777 – Cosmosophy. The album was recorded, mixed, and mastered at Earthsound Studio, with artwork provided by Daniel Valencia.
777 – The Desanctification is the ninth full-length album by French black metal band Blut Aus Nord. It was released on November 11, 2011 through Debemor Morti Productions. It is the second album of the '777 Trilogy'. The album was recorded, mixed, and mastered at Earthbound Studios, and the artwork was created by Valnoir of Metastazis.
Diotima is the third album by New York-based experimental black metal band Krallice. The track ""The Clearing"" was premiered via Stereogum on January 18, 2011, as well as the full track list. A double vinyl release was also announced by Gilead Media via their Facebook page, released in the summer of 2011 with a slightly different running order.
Ultima Thulée is the first full-length studio album by black metal band Blut Aus Nord.
The following is the discography of Enslaved, a Norwegian heavy metal band formed in Haugesund in June 1991.
Legions of the North is the seventh studio album by the Viking metal band Månegarm. It was released in 2013.
Pleasure and Pain is the seventh studio album by the Italian gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires. It is the first album after Lord Vampyr's departure, and the first to feature Sonya Scarlet as the main vocalist of the band as well as being the last to feature Robert Cufaro on guitar.
Eld is the third studio album by Norwegian metal band Enslaved. It was released on 7 April 1997, through Osmose Productions.
The Wild Hunt is the fifth studio album by Swedish black metal band Watain. It was released through Century Media on 19 August in Europe and 20 August in USA. The cover art was painted ""in oil and mixed materials"" by Zbigniew M. Bielak, who was also responsible for the artwork of Lawless Darkness. ""The Wild Hunt"" world tour opened on 24 August 2013 in Watain's home town, Uppsala.
Arv (Heritage) is the second full-length album by the Norwegian Viking / folk metal band Ásmegin. It was released on November 28, 2008 through Napalm Records.
Bloody Lunatic Asylum is the third studio album by the Italian gothic black metal band Theatres des Vampires. Track 11 is based on the Moonlight Sonata by Ludwig van Beethoven.
By the Sword of My Father is the second studio album of the musical project Folkearth.
Draculea is the seventh album by Italian Extreme Metal band Necrodeath, released in October 2007 by Scarlet Records. It was recorded at 'Outer Sound studio' (Rome) and 'MusicArt' studio (Genova).
Hell Symphony is the second full-length album by Czech black metal band Root. It was originally released in 1991. The album contains the first Root songs in the English language. On the band’s homepage, the style was described as heavy compared to the “monumentality of ‘The Temple In The Underworld’, mystery of ‘Kargeras’ and the dark charm of ‘The Book’”. Rock Hard magazine featured Hell Symphony on its list 250 Black-Metal-Alben, die man kennen sollte. ""The Oath"" and ""Satan’s March"" were included as bonus tracks in the 2001 re-release of the album along with live versions of ""The Old Ones"", ""Message"", ""Leviathan"" and ""Píseň pro Satana"".
Iubilaeum Anno Dracula 2001 is the first EP by the Italian band Theatres des Vampires. The name of the album, as well as the logo in the cover art is a parody on the Great Jubilee of 2000 (""Iubilaeum Anno Domini 2000"").
Neonism is the second studio album by Norwegian avant-garde metal band Solefald. It was released on 7 December 1999, through Avantgarde Music.
Nightbreed of Macabria is the sixth studio album by the band Theatres des Vampires. This album is very different from their previous releases as it features a small amount of screams and black metal influence. This was Lord Vampyr's last album with Theatres des Vampires. It is a concept album dealing with the fictional world of Macabria. The album was highly influenced by the works of American film producer Tim Burton.
Suicide Vampire is the fourth album from the Italian gothic black metal band Theatres des Vampires. The Theatres des Vampires drummer Gabriel Valerio was unavailable during the recording of the album, so the drums were recorded by Nick A. for this album.
The Book is album by Czech black metal group Root.
The Habit of Fire is a 2007 album by Indonesian avant-garde metal band Kekal. Released on 15 May in North America, Japan & Australia and 15 March in Europe & South America, it is their sixth full-length album. The album was constructed during Jeff's move to Canada, and was the last album recorded in his home studio in Indonesia. There is an official music video for the song ""Isolated I"".
The Linear Scaffold is the debut studio album by Norwegian avant-garde metal band Solefald. It was released in 1997, through Avantgarde Records. The cover art features Odd Nerdrum's 1986 painting Return of the Sun.
The Vampire Chronicles is the second album by the Italian gothic black metal band Theatres des Vampires.
Vampyrìsme, Nècrophilie, Nècrosadisme, Nècrophagie is the debut studio album by Italian band Theatres des Vampires. It was released on 1996 through Garden of Grief. The album's sound is significantly more raw than on subsequent releases. In 2003, a completely re-recorded version of this album was released as Vampyrìsme.... Drummer Agaharet would leave the band before the album's completion, leaving vocalist Lord Vampyr to finish it alone. The album's title is French for ""Vampirism, necrophilia, necrosadism, scavenging"" — however, correct spelling in French would be Nécro- instead of Nècro-. Track 1 opens with a passage of Bram Stoker's famous 1897 novel Dracula, while track 8 samples Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's Requiem.
Vampyrìsme... is the fifth studio album by Italian band Theatres des Vampires, released on September 15, 2003 by Beyond... Productions. It is a re-recorded version of the band's 1996 debut album Vampyrìsme, Nècrophilie, Nècrosadisme, Nècrophagie. The album was re-recorded entirely by Theatres des Vampires with guest appearances from former Cradle of Filth guitarist Gian Pyres and Christian Death vocalist Valor Kand. The album has also four new bonus tracks. ""Kingdom of Vampires"" is a re-recording of the eponymous song present in Theatres des Vampires' 1995 demo Nosferatu, eine Simphonie des Gravens.
Hades Rise is an album by the Norwegian black/thrash metal band Aura Noir. It features guest appearances from Danny Coralles (Autopsy, Abscess) and Blasphemer (ex-Mayhem). Art direction by Carl-Michael Eide, layout by Justin Bartlett:
Metal and Hell is the debut album by Polish heavy metal band Kat. It was released in 1985.
Non timor domini, non timor malus is the second studio album by the Italian Black ambient/Gothic rock band Militia Christi.
Nosferatu, eine Simphonie des Gravens is the first demotape by the Italian band Theatres des Vampires. All music was written by the only member of the band at the time, Lord Vampyr (at the time spelled as ""Lord Vampir"") and is, together with the similar Vampyrìsme, Nècrophilie, Nècrosadisme, Nècrophagie the most black-metallish album of the band. All three songs were re-released on the 2003 bootleg compilation The (Un)Official History 1993-2003. A new version of the song ""Dominions of the Northern Empire"" was released on Bloody Lunatic Asylum, simply as ""Dominions"". The song ""Kingdom of Vampires"" was released as a bonus track on the album Vampyrìsme....
Ordo Militia Templi is the first studio album by the Italian Black ambient/Gothic rock band Militia Christi.
Tetra Karcist is the seventh studio album by the Belgian black metal band, Enthroned. The artwork and layout is done by Ahmet Meran, and the Scorpion design is by Nornagest.
The Continuum Hypothesis is the 3rd full-length studio album released by the Melodic death/Black metal band Epoch of Unlight. It is the first to feature new vocalist BJ Cook and new guitarist Josh Braddock.
What Will Be Has Been is the 1st full-length studio album released by the Melodic death/Black metal band Epoch of Unlight. It was the eighth release by The End Records.
Krallice is the eponymous debut album by the New York–based black metal band Krallice. It was released on compact disc in 2008 on Canadian-based Profound Lore Records, and on vinyl in 2009 by American-based Gilead Media. The album was recorded before Nick McMaster had joined the band, therefore, he only appears as an additional vocalist on the recording and the bass was performed by both Marston and Barr.
(This article is about the 2010 Drudkh album. For other uses, see A Handful of Stars.) Handful of Stars (Ukrainian: Пригорща Зірок, Pryhorshcha Zirok) is the eighth full-length album by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh, released in 2010 on Season of Mist's Underground Activists label. The guitar sound on this album is significantly cleaner than that on any previous album the band had released, with the exception of the band's folk album Songs of Grief and Solitude. Critics and fans noticed a strong influence from post-rock and such bands as Alcest. Due to these features the record received mixed reviews, though it appeared in Haunting the Chapel's Top 50 Albums of 2010 at the number 8 position. Again, for lyrics was used the poetry of Ukrainian authors, such as Oleksa Stefanovych and Svyatoslav Gordynskyj. The limited edition box set of the album came with an EP entitled Slavonic Chronicles which featured covers of songs by Czech Republic's Master's Hammer and Poland's Sacrilegium. The EP was also issued separately as a 10"" vinyl record.
Sjukdom (English: Sickness) is the fourth and final full-length album by Swedish black metal band Lifelover. The album was released on 14 February, 2011 by Prophecy Productions on CD, Digipak CD and LP. A limited edition CD boxset was also released. Lifelover broke up the same year this album was released due to guitarist Jonas ""B"" Bergqvist's death in September, 2011.
Black Metal Jesus is the debut release of the Danish black metal band Horned Almighty.
Envoy of Lucifer is the fourth full-length studio album from Swedish black metal band Nifelheim. Released in 2007, it is their first (and so far, only) album for Regain Records after they jumped ship from Black Sun following the release of Servants of Darkness in 2000. For the recording, the band enlisted some special guests; Erik Danielsson from the black metal band Watain co-wrote two songs here, while Set Teitan provided lyrics for one song here and handled additional screaming.
Nattestid Ser Porten Vid (English: Night Sees the Wide Gate) was the first full-length album released by Norwegian black metal band Taake. It was released by Wounded Love Records in 1999. The album was written entirely by Hoest, but he brought in a session musician, Tundra, to perform bass and drums. It was recorded throughout 1997 and 1998 at Grieghallen. Nattestid is part one of a trilogy. All the writing on the CD and lyrics in the booklet are written in runes. All of the lyrics are sung in Norwegian.
Slavonic Chronicles is an EP released by Ukrainian black metal band Drudkh on September 20, 2010 (see 2010 in music), on the French label Season of Mist. It was released in two formats: as a 10"" LP and as a mini CD. The last one is available only as a part of a deluxe leather book edition of Drudkh's 2010 full-length album, Handful of Stars, strictly limited to 600 copies. Slavonic Chronicles consists of two cover versions of tracks by Slavic black metal bands: ""Tam gdzie gaśnie dzień..."" (originally by the Polish band Sacrilegium, taken from a split with Polish band North, titled Jesienne Szepty) and ""Indiánská píseň hrůzy"" (originally by Czech band Master's Hammer, taken from the album Šlágry). It was generally well received due to its stylistic similarity with classic Drudkh works like Blood in Our Wells, as opposed to the almost post-rock sound of Handful of Stars. The Sacrilegium cover was dedicated ""to our Polish brothers fallen in September 1939"", and because the group was unsuccessful in contacting Sacrilegium for the song's lyrics, the lyrics in the Drudkh version come from the Ukrainian poet Vadym Lesych (1909–1982).
The Devil's Music - Songs of Death and Damnation is Danish black metal band Horned Almighty's second full-length studio album.
Diabolical Age  is the third studio album by Norwegian black metal band Ragnarok, released on January 31, 2000 under Head Not Found record label. It's the final album with vocalist Thyme (Dag Ronny Hansen). Arcturus guitarist Knut Magne Valle was the engineer on the recording sessions.
Hold Your Breath is the third studio album by the American Christian metal band, Embodyment.
Prophets of Doom is the third EP of the Extreme Hybrid Metal band, Death Requisite.
Second Death is the fourth EP by the Extreme hybrid metal band, Death Requisite.
Over Bjoergvin graater himmerik (English: Heaven cries over Bergen) is the second full-length album from Norwegian black metal band Taake. It was released on January 1st, 2002.
Stridens hus is the sixth full-length album from Norwegian black metal band Taake. It was released on December 8th, 2014.
The Narrow Scope of Things is the second album by the Christian metal band Embodyment. It is the first album not to feature original vocalist Kris McCaddon or Rhythm Guitarist James Lanigan.
Ygg huur is the fifth studio album by American black metal band Krallice. The album was recorded between July 4-8 at Menegroth, The Thousand Caves Studio and was self-released digitally by the band on July 30, 2015, with physical versions released in September. The album received widespread critical acclaim for its dense, complex songwriting and unique sound, featuring on a number of end-of-year lists by music publications.
A Portrait Painted By The Sun is the sophomore studio album by Canadian atmospheric black metal band Finnr's Cane. It was released in 2013 by Prophecy Productions. Like Wanderlust, the debut album by Finnr's Cane, A Portrait Painted By The Sun was recorded by The Bard at Sardonic Moon Studio in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada and the artwork and layout were handled by Benjamin König. The cyclical nature of the seasons and the powerful sunshine of spring have been cited as thematic influences for A Portrait Painted By The Sun. The digipak release features a two-panel photo of a piece of birch bark with etchings of the album's lyrics.
Candyland is the tenth studio album by Italian gothic metal band Theatres des Vampires, released through Scarlet Records on 14 October 2016. Initially announced on 7 July 2016, it is their first studio album in 5 years since Moonlight Waltz, and also their first release with guitarist Giorgio Ferrante, who replaced Stephan Benfante early in 2016. It is noticeably more guitar- and keyboard-driven than the band's previous releases with Sonya Scarlet on vocals, and its lyrics focus less on occult themes. A music video for the track ""Morgana Effect"" was uploaded to the band's official YouTube channel on 29 September 2016. The album counts with guest appearances by Moonspell vocalist Fernando Ribeiro and J.T.R. Sickert frontman Tiziano Panini (a.k.a. Billy T. Cooper), Scarlet's husband.
Peripeteia is the third full-length album by the black metal band Anagnorisis. The title refers to concept described by Aristotle, peripeteia, which is also connected to the origin of the group's name, the concept of anagnorisis. The album was recorded and produced by the band and principal guitarist, Zak Denham. Peripeteia was released on vinyl and compact disc format through Vendetta Records, a Berlin-based record label, and on cassette tape through European and US-based tape labels.
Songs for the Living is the fourth album by the Christian metal band Embodyment. The album was the biggest departure from the band's original Death metal/deathcore sound, the album being more of an Alternative metal.
Wanderlust is the debut studio album by Canadian atmospheric black metal band Finnr's Cane. It was released in 2010 by Frostscald Records and re-released in 2011 by Prophecy Productions. The re-release includes a demo version of the song Snowfall, one of the first tracks composed by the band. The album was recorded by The Bard at Sardonic Moon Studio in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. Wanderlust has been compared to the music of Agalloch, Wolves in the Throne Room, and early Ulver, while maintaining a sound unique to Finnr's Cane.
Winter's Gate is the seventh studio album by the Finnish melodic death metal band Insomnium. It was released worldwide on September 23, 2016 via Century Media Records. It is a concept album said to be about “a group of Vikings who set out to find a fabled island west of Ireland, despite the treacherous winter drawing near.” The album consists of a single 40-minute track, but it was split into seven separate tracks for the digital download and streaming version.
